<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/><title>Moby Dick; or The Whale</title>


  <link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.13.7 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
  <body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00067">
      CHAPTER 62. The Dart.
    </h2>
    <p>
      A word concerning an incident in the last chapter.
    </p>
    <p>
      According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat pushes
      off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
      steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost oar,
      the one known as the harpooneer-oar. Now it needs a strong, nervous arm to
      strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called a long
      dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of twenty or
      thirty feet. But however prolonged and exhausting the chase, the
      harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost; indeed,
      he is expected to set an example of superhuman activity to the rest, not
      only by incredible rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid exclamations;
      and what it is to keep shouting at the top of one’s compass, while all the
      other muscles are strained and half started—what that is none know
      but those who have tried it. For one, I cannot bawl very heartily and work
      very recklessly at one and the same time. In this straining, bawling
      state, then, with his back to the fish, all at once the exhausted
      harpooneer hears the exciting cry—“Stand up, and give it to him!” He
      now has to drop and secure his oar, turn round on his centre half way,
      seize his harpoon from the crotch, and with what little strength may
      remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the whale. No wonder, taking
      the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of fifty fair chances for
      a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so many hapless
      harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some of them
      actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some sperm
      whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to many
      ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer
      that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can
      you expect to find it there when most wanted!
    </p>
    <p>
      Again, if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant,
      that is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneer
      likewise start to running fore and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of
      themselves and every one else. It is then they change places; and the
      headsman, the chief officer of the little craft, takes his proper station
      in the bows of the boat.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, I care not who maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish
      and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in the bows from first to last;
      he should both dart the harpoon and the lance, and no rowing whatever
      should be expected of him, except under circumstances obvious to any
      fisherman. I know that this would sometimes involve a slight loss of speed
      in the chase; but long experience in various whalemen of more than one
      nation has convinced me that in the vast majority of failures in the
      fishery, it has not by any means been so much the speed of the whale as
      the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer that has caused them.
    </p>
    <p>
      To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooneers of this
      world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and not from out of
      toil.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0063">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00068">
      CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs. So, in
      productive subjects, grow the chapters.
    </p>
    <p>
      The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention. It
      is a notched stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which is
      perpendicularly inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow, for the
      purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the harpoon,
      whose other naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow. Thereby
      the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it up as
      readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from the wall. It
      is customary to have two harpoons reposing in the crotch, respectively
      called the first and second irons.
    </p>
    <p>
      But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with the
      line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one instantly
      after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming drag, one
      should draw out, the other may still retain a hold. It is a doubling of
      the chances. But it very often happens that owing to the instantaneous,
      violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving the first iron, it
      becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however lightning-like in his
      movements, to pitch the second iron into him. Nevertheless, as the second
      iron is already connected with the line, and the line is running, hence
      that weapon must, at all events, be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat,
      somehow and somewhere; else the most terrible jeopardy would involve all
      hands. Tumbled into the water, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare
      coils of box line (mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in
      most instances, prudently practicable. But this critical act is not always
      unattended with the saddest and most fatal casualties.
    </p>
    <p>
      Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrown overboard,
      it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror, skittishly
      curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines, or cutting
      them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions. Nor, in
      general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is fairly
      captured and a corpse.
    </p>
    <p>
      Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engaging one
      unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to these qualities
      in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of such an
      audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
      simultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is supplied
      with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be
      ineffectually darted without recovery. All these particulars are
      faithfully narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate several most
      important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be painted.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0064">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00069">
      CHAPTER 64. Stubb’s Supper.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Stubb’s whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was a calm;
      so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow business of
      towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen men with our
      thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty thumbs and fingers, slowly
      toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpse in the sea; and it
      seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long intervals; good evidence was
      hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass we moved. For, upon the
      great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call it, in China, four or five
      laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky freighted junk at the rate of
      a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we towed heavily forged along, as if
      laden with pig-lead in bulk.
    </p>
    <p>
      Darkness came on; but three lights up and down in the Pequod’s
      main-rigging dimly guided our way; till drawing nearer we saw Ahab
      dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks. Vacantly eyeing
      the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders for securing it
      for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman, went his way into
      the cabin, and did not come forward again until morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had evinced
      his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature was dead,
      some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed working in
      him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that Moby Dick was yet
      to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were brought to his ship,
      all that would not one jot advance his grand, monomaniac object. Very soon
      you would have thought from the sound on the Pequod’s decks, that all
      hands were preparing to cast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are
      being dragged along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes.
      But by those clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to
      be moored. Tied by the head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the
      whale now lies with its black hull close to the vessel’s and seen through
      the darkness of the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the
      two—ship and whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks,
      whereof one reclines while the other remains standing.*
    </p>
    <p>
      *A little item may as well be related here. The strongest and most
      reliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside, is
      by the flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part is
      relatively heavier than any other (excepting the side-fins), its
      flexibility even in death, causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so
      that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat, in order to put the
      chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a small,
      strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end, and a weight
      in its middle, while the other end is secured to the ship. By adroit
      management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side of the mass,
      so that now having girdled the whale, the chain is readily made to follow
      suit; and being slipped along the body, is at last locked fast round the
      smallest part of the tail, at the point of junction with its broad flukes
      or lobes.
    </p>
    <p>
      If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known on
      deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an unusual
      but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was he in that
      the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned to him for the
      time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping cause of all this
      liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely manifest. Stubb was a high
      liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish
      thing to his palate.
    </p>
    <p>
      “A steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cut me
      one from his small!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a general
      thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defray
      the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceeds of
      the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers who have
      a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale designated by
      Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.
    </p>
    <p>
      About midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two lanterns
      of sperm oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper at the
      capstan-head, as if that capstan were a sideboard. Nor was Stubb the only
      banqueter on whale’s flesh that night. Mingling their mumblings with his
      own mastications, thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming round the
      dead leviathan, smackingly feasted on its fatness. The few sleepers below
      in their bunks were often startled by the sharp slapping of their tails
      against the hull, within a few inches of the sleepers’ hearts. Peering
      over the side you could just see them (as before you heard them) wallowing
      in the sullen, black waters, and turning over on their backs as they
      scooped out huge globular pieces of the whale of the bigness of a human
      head. This particular feat of the shark seems all but miraculous. How at
      such an apparently unassailable surface, they contrive to gouge out such
      symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the universal problem of all
      things. The mark they thus leave on the whale, may best be likened to the
      hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking for a screw.
    </p>
    <p>
      Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharks
      will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship’s decks, like hungry dogs
      round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every
      killed man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant butchers
      over the deck-table are thus cannibally carving each other’s live meat
      with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, the sharks, also, with their
      jewel-hilted mouths, are quarrelsomely carving away under the table at the
      dead meat; and though, were you to turn the whole affair upside down, it
      would still be pretty much the same thing, that is to say, a shocking
      sharkish business enough for all parties; and though sharks also are the
      invariable outriders of all slave ships crossing the Atlantic,
      systematically trotting alongside, to be handy in case a parcel is to be
      carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently buried; and though one or
      two other like instances might be set down, touching the set terms,
      places, and occasions, when sharks do most socially congregate, and most
      hilariously feast; yet is there no conceivable time or occasion when you
      will find them in such countless numbers, and in gayer or more jovial
      spirits, than around a dead sperm whale, moored by night to a whaleship at
      sea. If you have never seen that sight, then suspend your decision about
      the propriety of devil-worship, and the expediency of conciliating the
      devil.
    </p>
    <p>
      But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that was going
      on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of his own
      epicurean lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Cook, cook!—where’s that old Fleece?” he cried at length, widening
      his legs still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper;
      and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing with
      his lance; “cook, you cook!—sail this way, cook!”
     </p>
    <p>
      The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously roused
      from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling along
      from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something the matter
      with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like his other
      pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and limping
      along, assisting his step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy fashion,
      were made of straightened iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered along, and
      in obedience to the word of command, came to a dead stop on the opposite
      side of Stubb’s sideboard; when, with both hands folded before him, and
      resting on his two-legged cane, he bowed his arched back still further
      over, at the same time sideways inclining his head, so as to bring his
      best ear into play.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Cook,” said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his mouth,
      “don’t you think this steak is rather overdone? You’ve been beating this
      steak too much, cook; it’s too tender. Don’t I always say that to be good,
      a whale-steak must be tough? There are those sharks now over the side,
      don’t you see they prefer it tough and rare? What a shindy they are
      kicking up! Cook, go and talk to ’em; tell ’em they are welcome to help
      themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they must keep quiet. Blast me,
      if I can hear my own voice. Away, cook, and deliver my message. Here, take
      this lantern,” snatching one from his sideboard; “now then, go and preach
      to ’em!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Sullenly taking the offered lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck to
      the bulwarks; and then, with one hand dropping his light low over the sea,
      so as to get a good view of his congregation, with the other hand he
      solemnly flourished his tongs, and leaning far over the side in a mumbling
      voice began addressing the sharks, while Stubb, softly crawling behind,
      overheard all that was said.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Fellow-critters: I’se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam noise
      dare. You hear? Stop dat dam smackin’ ob de lip! Massa Stubb say dat you
      can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor! you must stop
      dat dam racket!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Cook,” here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a sudden slap on
      the shoulder,—“Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustn’t swear that way
      when you’re preaching. That’s no way to convert sinners, cook!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Who dat? Den preach to him yourself,” sullenly turning to go.
    </p>
    <p>
      “No, cook; go on, go on.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters:”—
    </p>
    <p>
      “Right!” exclaimed Stubb, approvingly, “coax ’em to it; try that,” and
      Fleece continued.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Do you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I zay to you,
      fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness—’top dat dam slappin’ ob de
      tail! How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin’ and
      bitin’ dare?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Cook,” cried Stubb, collaring him, “I won’t have that swearing. Talk to
      ’em gentlemanly.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Once more the sermon proceeded.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don’t blame ye so much for;
      dat is natur, and can’t be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is
      de pint. You is sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den
      you be angel; for all angel is not’ing more dan de shark well goberned.
      Now, look here, bred’ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping yourselbs
      from dat whale. Don’t be tearin’ de blubber out your neighbour’s
      mout, I say. Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat whale? And, by Gor, none
      on you has de right to dat whale; dat whale belong to some one else. I
      know some o’ you has berry brig mout, brigger dan oders; but den de brig
      mouts sometimes has de small bellies; so dat de brigness of de mout is not
      to swaller wid, but to bit off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat
      can’t get into de scrouge to help demselves.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Well done, old Fleece!” cried Stubb, “that’s Christianity; go on.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “No use goin’ on; de dam willains will keep a scougin’ and slappin’ each
      oder, Massa Stubb; dey don’t hear one word; no use a-preachin’ to such dam
      g’uttons as you call ’em, till dare bellies is full, and dare bellies is
      bottomless; and when dey do get ’em full, dey wont hear you den; for den
      dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and can’t hear not’ing
      at all, no more, for eber and eber.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Upon my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction,
      Fleece, and I’ll away to my supper.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised his
      shrill voice, and cried—
    </p>
    <p>
      “Cussed fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fill
      your dam’ bellies ’till dey bust—and den die.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Now, cook,” said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; “stand just
      where you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular
      attention.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “All dention,” said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
      desired position.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Well,” said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; “I shall now go back
      to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you, cook?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “What dat do wid de ’teak,” said the old black, testily.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Silence! How old are you, cook?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “’Bout ninety, dey say,” he gloomily muttered.
    </p>
    <p>
      “And you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years, cook, and
      don’t know yet how to cook a whale-steak?” rapidly bolting another
      mouthful at the last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of the
      question. “Where were you born, cook?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “’Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin’ ober de Roanoke.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Born in a ferry-boat! That’s queer, too. But I want to know what country
      you were born in, cook!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Didn’t I say de Roanoke country?” he cried sharply.
    </p>
    <p>
      “No, you didn’t, cook; but I’ll tell you what I’m coming to, cook. You
      must go home and be born over again; you don’t know how to cook a
      whale-steak yet.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Bress my soul, if I cook noder one,” he growled, angrily, turning round
      to depart.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Come back, cook;—here, hand me those tongs;—now take
      that bit of steak there, and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it
      should be? Take it, I say”—holding the tongs towards him—“take
      it, and taste it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a moment, the old negro
      muttered, “Best cooked ’teak I eber taste; joosy, berry joosy.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Cook,” said Stubb, squaring himself once more; “do you belong to the
      church?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Passed one once in Cape-Down,” said the old man sullenly.
    </p>
    <p>
      “And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town, where
      you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
      beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook! And yet you come here, and tell
      me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?” said Stubb. “Where do you
      expect to go to, cook?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Go to bed berry soon,” he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Avast! heave to! I mean when you die, cook. It’s an awful question. Now
      what’s your answer?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “When dis old brack man dies,” said the negro slowly, changing his whole
      air and demeanor, “he hisself won’t go nowhere; but some bressed angel
      will come and fetch him.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Fetch him? How? In a coach and four, as they fetched Elijah? And fetch
      him where?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Up dere,” said Fleece, holding his tongs straight over his head, and
      keeping it there very solemnly.
    </p>
    <p>
      “So, then, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you
      are dead? But don’t you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?
      Main-top, eh?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Didn’t say dat t’all,” said Fleece, again in the sulks.
    </p>
    <p>
      “You said up there, didn’t you? and now look yourself, and see where your
      tongs are pointing. But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling
      through the lubber’s hole, cook; but, no, no, cook, you don’t get there,
      except you go the regular way, round by the rigging. It’s a ticklish
      business, but must be done, or else it’s no go. But none of us are in
      heaven yet. Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do ye hear? Hold
      your hat in one hand, and clap t’other a’top of your heart, when I’m
      giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, there?—that’s your
      gizzard! Aloft! aloft!—that’s it—now you have it. Hold it
      there now, and pay attention.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “All ’dention,” said the old black, with both hands placed as desired,
      vainly wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at one
      and the same time.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Well then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, that
      I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don’t you?
      Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my private
      table here, the capstan, I’ll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by
      overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the
      other; that done, dish it; d’ye hear? And now to-morrow, cook, when we are
      cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by to get the tips of his fins;
      have them put in pickle. As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused,
      cook. There, now ye may go.”
     </p>
    <p>
      But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch. D’ye
      hear? away you sail, then.—Halloa! stop! make a bow before you go.—Avast
      heaving again! Whale-balls for breakfast—don’t forget.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Wish, by gor! whale eat him, ’stead of him eat whale. I’m bressed if he
      ain’t more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself,” muttered the old man,
      limping away; with which sage ejaculation he went to his hammock.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0065">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00070">
      CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.
    </h2>
    <p>
      That mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp, and,
      like Stubb, eat him by his own light, as you may say; this seems so
      outlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into the history and
      philosophy of it.
    </p>
    <p>
      It is upon record, that three centuries ago the tongue of the Right Whale
      was esteemed a great delicacy in France, and commanded large prices there.
      Also, that in Henry VIIIth’s time, a certain cook of the court obtained a
      handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be eaten with
      barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species of whale.
      Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating. The meat is
      made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and being well seasoned
      and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls. The old monks of
      Dunfermline were very fond of them. They had a great porpoise grant from
      the crown.
    </p>
    <p>
      The fact is, that among his hunters at least, the whale would by all hands
      be considered a noble dish, were there not so much of him; but when you
      come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one hundred feet long, it takes
      away your appetite. Only the most unprejudiced of men like Stubb, nowadays
      partake of cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not so fastidious. We all
      know how they live upon whales, and have rare old vintages of prime old
      train oil. Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips
      of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly juicy and nourishing. And
      this reminds me that certain Englishmen, who long ago were accidentally
      left in Greenland by a whaling vessel—that these men actually lived
      for several months on the mouldy scraps of whales which had been left
      ashore after trying out the blubber. Among the Dutch whalemen these scraps
      are called “fritters”; which, indeed, they greatly resemble, being brown
      and crisp, and smelling something like old Amsterdam housewives’
      dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh. They have such an eatable look that
      the most self-denying stranger can hardly keep his hands off.
    </p>
    <p>
      But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish, is his
      exceeding richness. He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be
      delicately good. Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as the
      buffalo’s (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
      pyramid of fat. But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that is;
      like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the third
      month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter.
      Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other
      substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try watches of the night
      it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship-biscuit into the
      huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Many a good supper have I
      thus made.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.
      The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump,
      whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings),
      they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess, in
      flavor somewhat resembling calves’ head, which is quite a dish among some
      epicures; and every one knows that some young bucks among the epicures, by
      continually dining upon calves’ brains, by and by get to have a little
      brains of their own, so as to be able to tell a calf’s head from their own
      heads; which, indeed, requires uncommon discrimination. And that is the
      reason why a young buck with an intelligent looking calf’s head before
      him, is somehow one of the saddest sights you can see. The head looks a
      sort of reproachfully at him, with an “Et tu Brute!” expression.
    </p>
    <p>
      It is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessively unctuous
      that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him with abhorrence; that
      appears to result, in some way, from the consideration before mentioned:
      <i>i.e.</i> that a man should eat a newly murdered thing of the sea, and eat it
      too by its own light. But no doubt the first man that ever murdered an ox
      was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung; and if he had been put on
      his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been; and he certainly deserved
      it if any murderer does. Go to the meat-market of a Saturday night and see
      the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the long rows of dead quadrupeds.
      Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal’s jaw? Cannibals? who
      is not a cannibal? I tell you it will be more tolerable for the Fejee that
      salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a coming famine; it
      will be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in the day of
      judgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who nailest
      geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy
      paté-de-foie-gras.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he? and that is adding
      insult to injury, is it? Look at your knife-handle, there, my civilized
      and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is that handle
      made of?—what but the bones of the brother of the very ox you are
      eating? And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that fat
      goose? With a feather of the same fowl. And with what quill did the
      Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders
      formally indite his circulars? It is only within the last month or two
      that that society passed a resolution to patronize nothing but steel pens.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0066">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00071">
      CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.
    </h2>
    <p>
      When in the Southern Fishery, a captured Sperm Whale, after long and weary
      toil, is brought alongside late at night, it is not, as a general thing at
      least, customary to proceed at once to the business of cutting him in. For
      that business is an exceedingly laborious one; is not very soon completed;
      and requires all hands to set about it. Therefore, the common usage is to
      take in all sail; lash the helm a’lee; and then send every one below to
      his hammock till daylight, with the reservation that, until that time,
      anchor-watches shall be kept; that is, two and two for an hour, each
      couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the deck to see that all goes
      well.
    </p>
    <p>
      But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the Pacific, this plan will not
      answer at all; because such incalculable hosts of sharks gather round the
      moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on a stretch,
      little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning. In most other
      parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not so largely abound,
      their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably diminished, by
      vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a procedure
      notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to tickle them into
      still greater activity. But it was not thus in the present case with the
      Pequod’s sharks; though, to be sure, any man unaccustomed to such sights,
      to have looked over her side that night, would have almost thought the
      whole round sea was one huge cheese, and those sharks the maggots in it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
      concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came on
      deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for immediately
      suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering three lanterns,
      so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid sea, these two
      mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an incessant
      murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deep into their
      skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamy confusion of
      their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not always hit their
      mark; and this brought about new revelations of the incredible ferocity of
      the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at each other’s disembowelments,
      but like flexible bows, bent round, and bit their own; till those entrails
      seemed swallowed over and over again by the same mouth, to be oppositely
      voided by the gaping wound. Nor was this all. It was unsafe to meddle with
      the corpses and ghosts of these creatures. A sort of generic or
      Pantheistic vitality seemed to lurk in their very joints and bones, after
      what might be called the individual life had departed. Killed and hoisted
      on deck for the sake of his skin, one of these sharks almost took poor
      Queequeg’s hand off, when he tried to shut down the dead lid of his
      murderous jaw.
    </p>
    <p>
      *The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; is
      about the bigness of a man’s spread hand; and in general shape,
      corresponds to the garden implement after which it is named; only its
      sides are perfectly flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than the
      lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when being
      used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. In its socket, a stiff
      pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Queequeg no care what god made him shark,” said the savage, agonizingly
      lifting his hand up and down; “wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de
      god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin.”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0067">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00072">
      CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.
    </h2>
    <p>
      It was a Saturday night, and such a Sabbath as followed! Ex officio
      professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod was
      turned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You would have
      thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the first place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other ponderous
      things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green, and which
      no single man can possibly lift—this vast bunch of grapes was swayed
      up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head, the strongest
      point anywhere above a ship’s deck. The end of the hawser-like rope
      winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass, and
      the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to this
      block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was
      attached. And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb,
      the mates, armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the body
      for the insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two side-fins.
      This done, a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole, the hook is
      inserted, and the main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now
      commence heaving in one dense crowd at the windlass. When instantly, the
      entire ship careens over on her side; every bolt in her starts like the
      nail-heads of an old house in frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and
      nods her frighted mast-heads to the sky. More and more she leans over to
      the whale, while every gasping heave of the windlass is answered by a
      helping heave from the billows; till at last, a swift, startling snap is
      heard; with a great swash the ship rolls upwards and backwards from the
      whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into sight dragging after it the
      disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of blubber. Now as the
      blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an orange, so is it
      stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is sometimes stripped by
      spiralizing it. For the strain constantly kept up by the windlass
      continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the water, and as the
      blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the line called the
      “scarf,” simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the
      mates; and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very
      act itself, it is all the time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till
      its upper end grazes the main-top; the men at the windlass then cease
      heaving, and for a moment or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways
      to and fro as if let down from the sky, and every one present must take
      good heed to dodge it when it swings, else it may box his ears and pitch
      him headlong overboard.
    </p>
    <p>
      One of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon
      called a boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices out
      a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass. Into this hole,
      the end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked so as to
      retain a hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what follows.
      Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to stand off,
      once more makes a scientific dash at the mass, and with a few sidelong,
      desperate, lunging slicings, severs it completely in twain; so that while
      the short lower part is still fast, the long upper strip, called a
      blanket-piece, swings clear, and is all ready for lowering. The heavers
      forward now resume their song, and while the one tackle is peeling and
      hoisting a second strip from the whale, the other is slowly slackened
      away, and down goes the first strip through the main hatchway right
      beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the blubber-room. Into this
      twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling away the long
      blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited serpents. And
      thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
      simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing, the
      blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship straining,
      and all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the general
      friction.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0068">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00073">
      CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.
    </h2>
    <p>
      I have given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, the skin of
      the whale. I have had controversies about it with experienced whalemen
      afloat, and learned naturalists ashore. My original opinion remains
      unchanged; but it is only an opinion.
    </p>
    <p>
      The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale? Already you know
      what his blubber is. That blubber is something of the consistence of firm,
      close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and ranges from
      eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature’s
      skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point of
      fact these are no arguments against such a presumption; because you cannot
      raise any other dense enveloping layer from the whale’s body but that same
      blubber; and the outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if reasonably
      dense, what can that be but the skin? True, from the unmarred dead body of
      the whale, you may scrape off with your hand an infinitely thin,
      transparent substance, somewhat resembling the thinnest shreds of
      isinglass, only it is almost as flexible and soft as satin; that is,
      previous to being dried, when it not only contracts and thickens, but
      becomes rather hard and brittle. I have several such dried bits, which I
      use for marks in my whale-books. It is transparent, as I said before; and
      being laid upon the printed page, I have sometimes pleased myself with
      fancying it exerted a magnifying influence. At any rate, it is pleasant to
      read about whales through their own spectacles, as you may say. But what I
      am driving at here is this. That same infinitely thin, isinglass
      substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the whale, is not so
      much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as the skin of the skin,
      so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that the proper skin of
      the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the skin of a
      new-born child. But no more of this.
    </p>
    <p>
      Assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin, as
      in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one
      hundred barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity, or
      rather weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only three fourths,
      and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hence be had of
      the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose mere
      integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten barrels to
      the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters of
      the stuff of the whale’s skin.
    </p>
    <p>
      In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least among the
      many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over obliquely
      crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick array,
      something like those in the finest Italian line engravings. But these
      marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
      mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved upon
      the body itself. Nor is this all. In some instances, to the quick,
      observant eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but afford
      the ground for far other delineations. These are hieroglyphical; that is,
      if you call those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids
      hieroglyphics, then that is the proper word to use in the present
      connexion. By my retentive memory of the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm
      Whale in particular, I was much struck with a plate representing the old
      Indian characters chiselled on the famous hieroglyphic palisades on the
      banks of the Upper Mississippi. Like those mystic rocks, too, the
      mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable. This allusion to the Indian
      rocks reminds me of another thing. Besides all the other phenomena which
      the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not seldom displays the back,
      and more especially his flanks, effaced in great part of the regular
      linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches, altogether of an
      irregular, random aspect. I should say that those New England rocks on the
      sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of violent scraping
      contact with vast floating icebergs—I should say, that those rocks
      must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular. It also
      seems to me that such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile
      contact with other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large,
      full-grown bulls of the species.
    </p>
    <p>
      A word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of the
      whale. It has already been said, that it is stript from him in long
      pieces, called blanket-pieces. Like most sea-terms, this one is very happy
      and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a
      real blanket or counterpane; or, still better, an Indian poncho slipt over
      his head, and skirting his extremity. It is by reason of this cosy
      blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to keep himself
      comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides. What would
      become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of the
      North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout? True, other fish are found
      exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it observed,
      are your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies are
      refrigerators; creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of an
      iceberg, as a traveller in winter would bask before an inn fire; whereas,
      like man, the whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze his blood, and he
      dies. How wonderful is it then—except after explanation—that
      this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is as indispensable as it is
      to man; how wonderful that he should be found at home, immersed to his
      lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when seamen fall overboard,
      they are sometimes found, months afterwards, perpendicularly frozen into
      the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found glued in amber. But more
      surprising is it to know, as has been proved by experiment, that the blood
      of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a Borneo negro in summer.
    </p>
    <p>
      It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong
      individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
      virtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself after
      the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too, live in this
      world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at
      the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter’s, and like the great whale,
      retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of thine own.
    </p>
    <p>
      But how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things! Of erections,
      how few are domed like St. Peter’s! of creatures, how few vast as the
      whale!
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0069">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00074">
      CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.
    </h2>
    <p>
      “Haul in the chains! Let the carcase go astern!”
    </p>
    <p>
      The vast tackles have now done their duty. The peeled white body of the
      beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it
      has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk. It is still colossal. Slowly it
      floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the
      insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of
      screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the
      whale. The vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the
      ship, and every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks
      and cubic roods of fowls, augment the murderous din. For hours and hours
      from the almost stationary ship that hideous sight is seen. Beneath the
      unclouded and mild azure sky, upon the fair face of the pleasant sea,
      wafted by the joyous breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on,
      till lost in infinite perspectives.
    </p>
    <p>
      There’s a most doleful and most mocking funeral! The sea-vultures all in
      pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black or speckled. In
      life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween, if peradventure
      he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral they most piously do
      pounce. Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! from which not the mightiest
      whale is free.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nor is this the end. Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghost survives
      and hovers over it to scare. Espied by some timid man-of-war or blundering
      discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance obscuring the swarming
      fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in the sun, and
      the white spray heaving high against it; straightway the whale’s unharming
      corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in the log—<i>shoals, rocks,
      and breakers hereabouts: beware!</i> And for years afterwards, perhaps, ships
      shun the place; leaping over it as silly sheep leap over a vacuum, because
      their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held. There’s your
      law of precedents; there’s your utility of traditions; there’s the story
      of your obstinate survival of old beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and
      now not even hovering in the air! There’s orthodoxy!
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus, while in life the great whale’s body may have been a real terror to
      his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world.
    </p>
    <p>
      Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend? There are other ghosts than the
      Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in them.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0070">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00075">
      CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.
    </h2>
    <p>
      It should not have been omitted that previous to completely stripping the
      body of the leviathan, he was beheaded. Now, the beheading of the Sperm
      Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon which experienced whale
      surgeons very much pride themselves: and not without reason.
    </p>
    <p>
      Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck; on
      the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that very
      place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that the surgeon must
      operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening between him and his
      subject, and that subject almost hidden in a discoloured, rolling, and
      oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bear in mind, too, that under
      these untoward circumstances he has to cut many feet deep in the flesh;
      and in that subterraneous manner, without so much as getting one single
      peep into the ever-contracting gash thus made, he must skilfully steer
      clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts, and exactly divide the spine at
      a critical point hard by its insertion into the skull. Do you not marvel,
      then, at Stubb’s boast, that he demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm
      whale?
    </p>
    <p>
      When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a cable
      till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small whale it is
      hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with a full grown
      leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale’s head embraces nearly
      one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a burden as
      that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as vain a thing
      as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers’ scales.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Pequod’s whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the head was
      hoisted against the ship’s side—about half way out of the sea, so
      that it might yet in great part be buoyed up by its native element. And
      there with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it, by reason of the
      enormous downward drag from the lower mast-head, and every yard-arm on
      that side projecting like a crane over the waves; there, that
      blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod’s waist like the giant Holofernes’s
      from the girdle of Judith.
    </p>
    <p>
      When this last task was accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went
      below to their dinner. Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but now
      deserted deck. An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow lotus, was
      more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      A short space elapsed, and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alone from
      his cabin. Taking a few turns on the quarter-deck, he paused to gaze over
      the side, then slowly getting into the main-chains he took Stubb’s long
      spade—still remaining there after the whale’s decapitation—and
      striking it into the lower part of the half-suspended mass, placed its
      other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so stood leaning over with eyes
      attentively fixed on this head.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a black and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so
      intense a calm, it seemed the Sphynx’s in the desert. “Speak, thou vast
      and venerable head,” muttered Ahab, “which, though ungarnished with a
      beard, yet here and there lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head,
      and tell us the secret thing that is in thee. Of all divers, thou hast
      dived the deepest. That head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has
      moved amid this world’s foundations. Where unrecorded names and navies
      rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this
      frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the drowned; there,
      in that awful water-land, there was thy most familiar home. Thou hast been
      where bell or diver never went; hast slept by many a sailor’s side, where
      sleepless mothers would give their lives to lay them down. Thou saw’st the
      locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship; heart to heart they
      sank beneath the exulting wave; true to each other, when heaven seemed
      false to them. Thou saw’st the murdered mate when tossed by pirates from
      the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the deeper midnight of the
      insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on unharmed—while
      swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that would have borne a
      righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms. O head! thou hast seen
      enough to split the planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one
      syllable is thine!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Sail ho!” cried a triumphant voice from the main-mast-head.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Aye? Well, now, that’s cheering,” cried Ahab, suddenly erecting himself,
      while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow. “That lively cry
      upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.—Where
      away?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze to
      us!
    </p>
    <p>
      “Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way, and
      to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man! how
      far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not the smallest atom
      stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in mind.”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0071">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00076">
      CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam’s Story.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than the
      ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock.
    </p>
    <p>
      By and by, through the glass the stranger’s boats and manned mast-heads
      proved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, and shooting
      by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod could not
      hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see what response would be
      made.
    </p>
    <p>
      Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the ships of
      the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which signals
      being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
      attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whale commanders
      are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at considerable
      distances and with no small facility.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Pequod’s signal was at last responded to by the stranger’s setting her
      own; which proved the ship to be the Jeroboam of Nantucket. Squaring her
      yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under the Pequod’s lee, and lowered a
      boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the side-ladder was being rigged by
      Starbuck’s order to accommodate the visiting captain, the stranger in
      question waved his hand from his boat’s stern in token of that proceeding
      being entirely unnecessary. It turned out that the Jeroboam had a
      malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her captain, was fearful of
      infecting the Pequod’s company. For, though himself and boat’s crew
      remained untainted, and though his ship was half a rifle-shot off, and an
      incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing between; yet conscientiously
      adhering to the timid quarantine of the land, he peremptorily refused to
      come into direct contact with the Pequod.
    </p>
    <p>
      But this did by no means prevent all communications. Preserving an
      interval of some few yards between itself and the ship, the Jeroboam’s
      boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to the
      Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this time it blew
      very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at times by the
      sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed some way
      ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings again.
      Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
      conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
      without still another interruption of a very different sort.
    </p>
    <p>
      Pulling an oar in the Jeroboam’s boat, was a man of a singular appearance,
      even in that wild whaling life where individual notabilities make up all
      totalities. He was a small, short, youngish man, sprinkled all over his
      face with freckles, and wearing redundant yellow hair. A long-skirted,
      cabalistically-cut coat of a faded walnut tinge enveloped him; the
      overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on his wrists. A deep,
      settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had exclaimed—“That’s
      he! that’s he!—the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho’s company told
      us of!” Stubb here alluded to a strange story told of the Jeroboam, and a
      certain man among her crew, some time previous when the Pequod spoke the
      Town-Ho. According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it
      seemed that the scaramouch in question had gained a wonderful ascendency
      over almost everybody in the Jeroboam. His story was this:
    </p>
    <p>
      He had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna
      Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret
      meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a
      trap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he
      carried in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing gunpowder,
      was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange, apostolic whim having
      seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket, where, with that cunning
      peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady, common-sense exterior, and
      offered himself as a green-hand candidate for the Jeroboam’s whaling
      voyage. They engaged him; but straightway upon the ship’s getting out of
      sight of land, his insanity broke out in a freshet. He announced himself
      as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded the captain to jump overboard. He
      published his manifesto, whereby he set himself forth as the deliverer of
      the isles of the sea and vicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching
      earnestness with which he declared these things;—the dark, daring
      play of his sleepless, excited imagination, and all the preternatural
      terrors of real delirium, united to invest this Gabriel in the minds of
      the majority of the ignorant crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness.
      Moreover, they were afraid of him. As such a man, however, was not of much
      practical use in the ship, especially as he refused to work except when he
      pleased, the incredulous captain would fain have been rid of him; but
      apprised that that individual’s intention was to land him in the first
      convenient port, the archangel forthwith opened all his seals and vials—devoting
      the ship and all hands to unconditional perdition, in case this intention
      was carried out. So strongly did he work upon his disciples among the
      crew, that at last in a body they went to the captain and told him if
      Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain. He was
      therefore forced to relinquish his plan. Nor would they permit Gabriel to
      be any way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass
      that Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship. The consequence of all
      this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
      mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand
      than ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole
      command; nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure. The
      sailors, mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him;
      in obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage,
      as to a god. Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they
      are true. Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to
      the measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless
      power of deceiving and bedevilling so many others. But it is time to
      return to the Pequod.
    </p>
    <p>
      “I fear not thy epidemic, man,” said Ahab from the bulwarks, to Captain
      Mayhew, who stood in the boat’s stern; “come on board.”
     </p>
    <p>
      But now Gabriel started to his feet.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious! Beware of the horrible
      plague!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Gabriel! Gabriel!” cried Captain Mayhew; “thou must either—” But
      that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seethings
      drowned all speech.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Hast thou seen the White Whale?” demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted
      back.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Think, think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of the horrible
      tail!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I tell thee again, Gabriel, that—” But again the boat tore ahead as
      if dragged by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while a
      succession of riotous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasional
      caprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it. Meantime, the hoisted
      sperm whale’s head jogged about very violently, and Gabriel was seen
      eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangel nature
      seemed to warrant.
    </p>
    <p>
      When this interlude was over, Captain Mayhew began a dark story concerning
      Moby Dick; not, however, without frequent interruptions from Gabriel,
      whenever his name was mentioned, and the crazy sea that seemed leagued
      with him.
    </p>
    <p>
      It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking a
      whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence of Moby
      Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this intelligence,
      Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the White Whale, in
      case the monster should be seen; in his gibbering insanity, pronouncing
      the White Whale to be no less a being than the Shaker God incarnated; the
      Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, some year or two afterwards, Moby
      Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey, the chief mate, burned
      with ardour to encounter him; and the captain himself being not unwilling
      to let him have the opportunity, despite all the archangel’s denunciations
      and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading five men to man his boat.
      With them he pushed off; and, after much weary pulling, and many perilous,
      unsuccessful onsets, he at last succeeded in getting one iron fast.
      Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the main-royal mast-head, was tossing one
      arm in frantic gestures, and hurling forth prophecies of speedy doom to
      the sacrilegious assailants of his divinity. Now, while Macey, the mate,
      was standing up in his boat’s bow, and with all the reckless energy of his
      tribe was venting his wild exclamations upon the whale, and essaying to
      get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo! a broad white shadow rose from
      the sea; by its quick, fanning motion, temporarily taking the breath out
      of the bodies of the oarsmen. Next instant, the luckless mate, so full of
      furious life, was smitten bodily into the air, and making a long arc in
      his descent, fell into the sea at the distance of about fifty yards. Not a
      chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any oarsman’s head; but the
      mate for ever sank.
    </p>
    <p>
      It is well to parenthesize here, that of the fatal accidents in the
      Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any.
      Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated; oftener
      the boat’s bow is knocked off, or the thigh-board, in which the headsman
      stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. But strangest of
      all is the circumstance, that in more instances than one, when the body
      has been recovered, not a single mark of violence is discernible; the man
      being stark dead.
    </p>
    <p>
      The whole calamity, with the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried
      from the ship. Raising a piercing shriek—“The vial! the vial!”
       Gabriel called off the terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of
      the whale. This terrible event clothed the archangel with added influence;
      because his credulous disciples believed that he had specifically
      fore-announced it, instead of only making a general prophecy, which any
      one might have done, and so have chanced to hit one of many marks in the
      wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terror to the ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to him,
      that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he intended
      to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To which Ahab
      answered—“Aye.” Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started to his
      feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with downward
      pointed finger—“Think, think of the blasphemer—dead, and down
      there!—beware of the blasphemer’s end!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew, “Captain, I have just
      bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for one of thy officers,
      if I mistake not. Starbuck, look over the bag.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Every whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships,
      whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon
      the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans. Thus, most
      letters never reach their mark; and many are only received after attaining
      an age of two or three years or more.
    </p>
    <p>
      Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand. It was sorely tumbled,
      damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in consequence of
      being kept in a dark locker of the cabin. Of such a letter, Death himself
      might well have been the post-boy.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Can’st not read it?” cried Ahab. “Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it’s but a
      dim scrawl;—what’s this?” As he was studying it out, Starbuck took a
      long cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, to
      insert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, without its
      coming any closer to the ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, “Mr. Har—yes, Mr. Harry—(a
      woman’s pinny hand,—the man’s wife, I’ll wager)—Aye—Mr.
      Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam;—why it’s Macey, and he’s dead!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Poor fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife,” sighed Mayhew; “but let me
      have it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Nay, keep it thyself,” cried Gabriel to Ahab; “thou art soon going that
      way.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Curses throttle thee!” yelled Ahab. “Captain Mayhew, stand by now to
      receive it”; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck’s hands, he caught
      it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the boat. But as
      he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing; the boat drifted
      a little towards the ship’s stern; so that, as if by magic, the letter
      suddenly ranged along with Gabriel’s eager hand. He clutched it in an
      instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on it, sent it
      thus loaded back into the ship. It fell at Ahab’s feet. Then Gabriel
      shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars, and in that
      manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.
    </p>
    <p>
      As, after this interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket of
      the whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild
      affair.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0072">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00077">
      CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.
    </h2>
    <p>
      In the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale, there
      is much running backwards and forwards among the crew. Now hands are
      wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there. There is no staying in
      any one place; for at one and the same time everything has to be done
      everywhere. It is much the same with him who endeavors the description of
      the scene. We must now retrace our way a little. It was mentioned that
      upon first breaking ground in the whale’s back, the blubber-hook was
      inserted into the original hole there cut by the spades of the mates. But
      how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook get fixed in that
      hole? It was inserted there by my particular friend Queequeg, whose duty
      it was, as harpooneer, to descend upon the monster’s back for the special
      purpose referred to. But in very many cases, circumstances require that
      the harpooneer shall remain on the whale till the whole flensing or
      stripping operation is concluded. The whale, be it observed, lies almost
      entirely submerged, excepting the immediate parts operated upon. So down
      there, some ten feet below the level of the deck, the poor harpooneer
      flounders about, half on the whale and half in the water, as the vast mass
      revolves like a tread-mill beneath him. On the occasion in question,
      Queequeg figured in the Highland costume—a shirt and socks—in
      which to my eyes, at least, he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one
      had a better chance to observe him, as will presently be seen.
    </p>
    <p>
      Being the savage’s bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oar in
      his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to attend
      upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon the dead whale’s
      back. You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by a long
      cord. Just so, from the ship’s steep side, did I hold Queequeg down there
      in the sea, by what is technically called in the fishery a monkey-rope,
      attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round his waist.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a humorously perilous business for both of us. For, before we
      proceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at both
      ends; fast to Queequeg’s broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow leather
      one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time, were wedded;
      and should poor Queequeg sink to rise no more, then both usage and honor
      demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should drag me down in his
      wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature united us. Queequeg was my
      own inseparable twin brother; nor could I any way get rid of the dangerous
      liabilities which the hempen bond entailed.
    </p>
    <p>
      So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then, that
      while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to perceive that
      my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock company of two; that
      my free will had received a mortal wound; and that another’s mistake or
      misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited disaster and death.
      Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of interregnum in Providence; for
      its even-handed equity never could have so gross an injustice. And yet
      still further pondering—while I jerked him now and then from between
      the whale and ship, which would threaten to jam him—still further
      pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of mine was the precise
      situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in most cases, he, one way
      or other, has this Siamese connexion with a plurality of other mortals. If
      your banker breaks, you snap; if your apothecary by mistake sends you
      poison in your pills, you die. True, you may say that, by exceeding
      caution, you may possibly escape these and the multitudinous other evil
      chances of life. But handle Queequeg’s monkey-rope heedfully as I would,
      sometimes he jerked it so, that I came very near sliding overboard. Nor
      could I possibly forget that, do what I would, I only had the management
      of one end of it.*
    </p>
    <p>
      *The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod
      that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. This improvement
      upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man than Stubb, in
      order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest possible guarantee
      for the faithfulness and vigilance of his monkey-rope holder.
    </p>
    <p>
      I have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between the whale
      and the ship—where he would occasionally fall, from the incessant
      rolling and swaying of both. But this was not the only jamming jeopardy he
      was exposed to. Unappalled by the massacre made upon them during the
      night, the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the before pent
      blood which began to flow from the carcass—the rabid creatures
      swarmed round it like bees in a beehive.
    </p>
    <p>
      And right in among those sharks was Queequeg; who often pushed them aside
      with his floundering feet. A thing altogether incredible were it not that
      attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwise miscellaneously
      carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nevertheless, it may well be believed that since they have such a ravenous
      finger in the pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp to them.
      Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and then jerked the
      poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seemed a
      peculiarly ferocious shark—he was provided with still another
      protection. Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego and
      Daggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keen whale-spades,
      wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could reach. This
      procedure of theirs, to be sure, was very disinterested and benevolent of
      them. They meant Queequeg’s best happiness, I admit; but in their hasty
      zeal to befriend him, and from the circumstance that both he and the
      sharks were at times half hidden by the blood-muddled water, those
      indiscreet spades of theirs would come nearer amputating a leg than a
      tail. But poor Queequeg, I suppose, straining and gasping there with that
      great iron hook—poor Queequeg, I suppose, only prayed to his Yojo,
      and gave up his life into the hands of his gods.
    </p>
    <p>
      Well, well, my dear comrade and twin-brother, thought I, as I drew in and
      then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea—what matters it,
      after all? Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men in
      this whaling world? That unsounded ocean you gasp in, is Life; those
      sharks, your foes; those spades, your friends; and what between sharks and
      spades you are in a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.
    </p>
    <p>
      But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now, as
      with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs up
      the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over the
      side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, consolatory glance
      hands him—what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, ye gods! hands him a
      cup of tepid ginger and water!
    </p>
    <p>
      “Ginger? Do I smell ginger?” suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near. “Yes,
      this must be ginger,” peering into the as yet untasted cup. Then standing
      as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the astonished
      steward slowly saying, “Ginger? ginger? and will you have the goodness to
      tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of ginger? Ginger! is ginger
      the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to kindle a fire in this shivering
      cannibal? Ginger!—what the devil is ginger? Sea-coal? firewood?—lucifer
      matches?—tinder?—gunpowder?—what the devil is ginger, I
      say, that you offer this cup to our poor Queequeg here.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this business,”
       he suddenly added, now approaching Starbuck, who had just come from
      forward. “Will you look at that kannakin, sir: smell of it, if you
      please.” Then watching the mate’s countenance, he added, “The steward, Mr.
      Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap to Queequeg, there,
      this instant off the whale. Is the steward an apothecary, sir? and may I
      ask whether this is the sort of bitters by which he blows back the life
      into a half-drowned man?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I trust not,” said Starbuck, “it is poor stuff enough.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Aye, aye, steward,” cried Stubb, “we’ll teach you to drug a harpooneer;
      none of your apothecary’s medicine here; you want to poison us, do ye? You
      have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder us all, and pocket
      the proceeds, do ye?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “It was not me,” cried Dough-Boy, “it was Aunt Charity that brought the
      ginger on board; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits, but
      only this ginger-jub—so she called it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Ginger-jub! you gingerly rascal! take that! and run along with ye to the
      lockers, and get something better. I hope I do no wrong, Mr. Starbuck. It
      is the captain’s orders—grog for the harpooneer on a whale.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Enough,” replied Starbuck, “only don’t hit him again, but—”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Oh, I never hurt when I hit, except when I hit a whale or something of
      that sort; and this fellow’s a weazel. What were you about saying, sir?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself.”
     </p>
    <p>
      When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and a sort
      of tea-caddy in the other. The first contained strong spirits, and was
      handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity’s gift, and that was
      freely given to the waves.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0073">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00078">
      CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk over Him.
    </h2>
    <p>
      It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale’s
      prodigious head hanging to the Pequod’s side. But we must let it continue
      hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it. For the
      present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the head, is
      to pray heaven the tackles may hold.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, during the past night and forenoon, the Pequod had gradually drifted
      into a sea, which, by its occasional patches of yellow brit, gave unusual
      tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species of the Leviathan that
      but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking anywhere near. And
      though all hands commonly disdained the capture of those inferior
      creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to cruise for them
      at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near the Crozetts
      without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale had been brought
      alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the announcement was made
      that a Right Whale should be captured that day, if opportunity offered.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nor was this long wanting. Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two
      boats, Stubb’s and Flask’s, were detached in pursuit. Pulling further and
      further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at the
      mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of
      tumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or
      both the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in
      plain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the
      towing whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at first it
      seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in a maelstrom,
      within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from view, as if
      diving under the keel. “Cut, cut!” was the cry from the ship to the boats,
      which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being brought with a deadly
      dash against the vessel’s side. But having plenty of line yet in the tubs,
      and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they paid out abundance of rope,
      and at the same time pulled with all their might so as to get ahead of the
      ship. For a few minutes the struggle was intensely critical; for while
      they still slacked out the tightened line in one direction, and still
      plied their oars in another, the contending strain threatened to take them
      under. But it was only a few feet advance they sought to gain. And they
      stuck to it till they did gain it; when instantly, a swift tremor was felt
      running like lightning along the keel, as the strained line, scraping
      beneath the ship, suddenly rose to view under her bows, snapping and
      quivering; and so flinging off its drippings, that the drops fell like
      bits of broken glass on the water, while the whale beyond also rose to
      sight, and once more the boats were free to fly. But the fagged whale
      abated his speed, and blindly altering his course, went round the stern of
      the ship towing the two boats after him, so that they performed a complete
      circuit.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meantime, they hauled more and more upon their lines, till close flanking
      him on both sides, Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance; and thus
      round and round the Pequod the battle went, while the multitudes of sharks
      that had before swum round the Sperm Whale’s body, rushed to the fresh
      blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking at every new gash, as the eager
      Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten
      rock.
    </p>
    <p>
      At last his spout grew thick, and with a frightful roll and vomit, he
      turned upon his back a corpse.
    </p>
    <p>
      While the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes,
      and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing, some
      conversation ensued between them.
    </p>
    <p>
      “I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard,” said Stubb,
      not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so ignoble a
      leviathan.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Wants with it?” said Flask, coiling some spare line in the boat’s bow,
      “did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm Whale’s head
      hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right Whale’s on the
      larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never afterwards
      capsize?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Why not?
    </p>
    <p>
      “I don’t know, but I heard that gamboge ghost of a Fedallah saying so, and
      he seems to know all about ships’ charms. But I sometimes think he’ll
      charm the ship to no good at last. I don’t half like that chap, Stubb. Did
      you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved into a snake’s
      head, Stubb?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Sink him! I never look at him at all; but if ever I get a chance of a
      dark night, and he standing hard by the bulwarks, and no one by; look down
      there, Flask”—pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of both
      hands—“Aye, will I! Flask, I take that Fedallah to be the devil in
      disguise. Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been
      stowed away on board ship? He’s the devil, I say. The reason why you don’t
      see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries it coiled
      away in his pocket, I guess. Blast him! now that I think of it, he’s
      always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “He sleeps in his boots, don’t he? He hasn’t got any hammock; but I’ve
      seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “No doubt, and it’s because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do ye
      see, in the eye of the rigging.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “What’s the old man have so much to do with him for?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Striking up a swap or a bargain, I suppose.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Bargain?—about what?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and the
      devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away his
      silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and then he’ll
      surrender Moby Dick.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Pooh! Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I don’t know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked one, I
      tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the old flag-ship
      once, switching his tail about devilish easy and gentlemanlike, and
      inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he was at home, and asked
      the devil what he wanted. The devil, switching his hoofs, up and says, ‘I
      want John.’ ‘What for?’ says the old governor. ‘What business is that of
      yours,’ says the devil, getting mad,—‘I want to use him.’ ‘Take
      him,’ says the governor—and by the Lord, Flask, if the devil didn’t
      give John the Asiatic cholera before he got through with him, I’ll eat
      this whale in one mouthful. But look sharp—ain’t you all ready
      there? Well, then, pull ahead, and let’s get the whale alongside.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I think I remember some such story as you were telling,” said Flask, when
      at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the
      ship, “but I can’t remember where.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Three Spaniards? Adventures of those three bloody-minded soldadoes? Did ye
      read it there, Flask? I guess ye did?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “No: never saw such a book; heard of it, though. But now, tell me, Stubb,
      do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was the same
      you say is now on board the Pequod?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Am I the same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn’t the devil live for
      ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead? Did you ever see any parson
      a wearing mourning for the devil? And if the devil has a latch-key to get
      into the admiral’s cabin, don’t you suppose he can crawl into a porthole?
      Tell me that, Mr. Flask?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Do you see that mainmast there?” pointing to the ship; “well, that’s the
      figure one; now take all the hoops in the Pequod’s hold, and string along
      in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that wouldn’t begin
      to be Fedallah’s age. Nor all the coopers in creation couldn’t show hoops
      enough to make oughts enough.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “But see here, Stubb, I thought you a little boasted just now, that you
      meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good chance. Now, if he’s
      so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he is going to live for
      ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard—tell me that?
    </p>
    <p>
      “Give him a good ducking, anyhow.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “But he’d crawl back.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Duck him again; and keep ducking him.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Suppose he should take it into his head to duck you, though—yes,
      and drown you—what then?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I should like to see him try it; I’d give him such a pair of black eyes
      that he wouldn’t dare to show his face in the admiral’s cabin again for a
      long while, let alone down in the orlop there, where he lives, and
      hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much. Damn the devil,
      Flask; so you suppose I’m afraid of the devil? Who’s afraid of him, except
      the old governor who daresn’t catch him and put him in double-darbies, as
      he deserves, but lets him go about kidnapping people; aye, and signed a
      bond with him, that all the people the devil kidnapped, he’d roast for
      him? There’s a governor!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Do I suppose it? You’ll know it before long, Flask. But I am going now to
      keep a sharp look-out on him; and if I see anything very suspicious going
      on, I’ll just take him by the nape of his neck, and say—Look here,
      Beelzebub, you don’t do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord I’ll
      make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan, and give
      him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will come short off at the
      stump—do you see; and then, I rather guess when he finds himself
      docked in that queer fashion, he’ll sneak off without the poor
      satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;—what else?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Mean or not mean, here we are at the ship.”
     </p>
    <p>
      The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side, where
      fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for securing him.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Didn’t I tell you so?” said Flask; “yes, you’ll soon see this right
      whale’s head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti’s.”
     </p>
    <p>
      In good time, Flask’s saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeply
      leaned over towards the sperm whale’s head, now, by the counterpoise of
      both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may
      well believe. So, when on one side you hoist in Locke’s head, you go over
      that way; but now, on the other side, hoist in Kant’s and you come back
      again; but in very poor plight. Thus, some minds for ever keep trimming
      boat. Oh, ye foolish! throw all these thunder-heads overboard, and then
      you will float light and right.
    </p>
    <p>
      In disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the
      ship, the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case
      of a sperm whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off whole,
      but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed and hoisted
      on deck, with all the well known black bone attached to what is called the
      crown-piece. But nothing like this, in the present case, had been done.
      The carcases of both whales had dropped astern; and the head-laden ship
      not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair of overburdening panniers.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meantime, Fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale’s head, and ever and
      anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his own hand.
      And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee occupied his shadow; while,
      if the Parsee’s shadow was there at all it seemed only to blend with, and
      lengthen Ahab’s. As the crew toiled on, Laplandish speculations were
      bandied among them, concerning all these passing things.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0074">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00079">
      CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Here, now, are two great whales, laying their heads together; let us join
      them, and lay together our own.
    </p>
    <p>
      Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and the Right
      Whale are by far the most noteworthy. They are the only whales regularly
      hunted by man. To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of all
      the known varieties of the whale. As the external difference between them
      is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this moment
      hanging from the Pequod’s side; and as we may freely go from one to the
      other, by merely stepping across the deck:—where, I should like to
      know, will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology than
      here?
    </p>
    <p>
      In the first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these
      heads. Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain
      mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale’s which the Right Whale’s sadly
      lacks. There is more character in the Sperm Whale’s head. As you behold
      it, you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point of
      pervading dignity. In the present instance, too, this dignity is
      heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the summit, giving
      token of advanced age and large experience. In short, he is what the
      fishermen technically call a “grey-headed whale.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads—namely, the
      two most important organs, the eye and the ear. Far back on the side of
      the head, and low down, near the angle of either whale’s jaw, if you
      narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you would
      fancy to be a young colt’s eye; so out of all proportion is it to the
      magnitude of the head.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale’s eyes, it is plain
      that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no more than he
      can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale’s eyes
      corresponds to that of a man’s ears; and you may fancy, for yourself, how
      it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects through your ears.
      You would find that you could only command some thirty degrees of vision
      in advance of the straight side-line of sight; and about thirty more
      behind it. If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you, with
      dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not be able to see him, any more
      than if he were stealing upon you from behind. In a word, you would have
      two backs, so to speak; but, at the same time, also, two fronts (side
      fronts): for what is it that makes the front of a man—what, indeed,
      but his eyes?
    </p>
    <p>
      Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes
      are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to
      produce one picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of the
      whale’s eyes, effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of solid
      head, which towers between them like a great mountain separating two lakes
      in valleys; this, of course, must wholly separate the impressions which
      each independent organ imparts. The whale, therefore, must see one
      distinct picture on this side, and another distinct picture on that side;
      while all between must be profound darkness and nothingness to him. Man
      may, in effect, be said to look out on the world from a sentry-box with
      two joined sashes for his window. But with the whale, these two sashes are
      separately inserted, making two distinct windows, but sadly impairing the
      view. This peculiarity of the whale’s eyes is a thing always to be borne
      in mind in the fishery; and to be remembered by the reader in some
      subsequent scenes.
    </p>
    <p>
      A curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning this
      visual matter as touching the Leviathan. But I must be content with a
      hint. So long as a man’s eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing is
      involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing whatever
      objects are before him. Nevertheless, any one’s experience will teach him,
      that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of things at one
      glance, it is quite impossible for him, attentively, and completely, to
      examine any two things—however large or however small—at one
      and the same instant of time; never mind if they lie side by side and
      touch each other. But if you now come to separate these two objects, and
      surround each by a circle of profound darkness; then, in order to see one
      of them, in such a manner as to bring your mind to bear on it, the other
      will be utterly excluded from your contemporary consciousness. How is it,
      then, with the whale? True, both his eyes, in themselves, must
      simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more comprehensive,
      combining, and subtle than man’s, that he can at the same moment of time
      attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one side of him, and
      the other in an exactly opposite direction? If he can, then is it as
      marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able simultaneously to go
      through the demonstrations of two distinct problems in Euclid. Nor,
      strictly investigated, is there any incongruity in this comparison.
    </p>
    <p>
      It may be but an idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the
      extraordinary vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when beset
      by three or four boats; the timidity and liability to queer frights, so
      common to such whales; I think that all this indirectly proceeds from the
      helpless perplexity of volition, in which their divided and diametrically
      opposite powers of vision must involve them.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye. If you are an
      entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two heads for
      hours, and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf
      whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
      wondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. With
      respect to their ears, this important difference is to be observed between
      the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former has an external
      opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered over with a
      membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without.
    </p>
    <p>
      Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the world
      through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear which is
      smaller than a hare’s? But if his eyes were broad as the lens of
      Herschel’s great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of
      cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
      hearing? Not at all.—Why then do you try to “enlarge” your mind?
      Subtilize it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
      over the sperm whale’s head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending by
      a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not that
      the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we might
      descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But let us
      hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are. What a really
      beautiful and chaste-looking mouth! from floor to ceiling, lined, or
      rather papered with a glistening white membrane, glossy as bridal satins.
    </p>
    <p>
      But come out now, and look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems like
      the long narrow lid of an immense snuff-box, with the hinge at one end,
      instead of one side. If you pry it up, so as to get it overhead, and
      expose its rows of teeth, it seems a terrific portcullis; and such, alas!
      it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom these spikes fall
      with impaling force. But far more terrible is it to behold, when fathoms
      down in the sea, you see some sulky whale, floating there suspended, with
      his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet long, hanging straight down at
      right-angles with his body, for all the world like a ship’s jib-boom. This
      whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out of sorts, perhaps;
      hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his jaw have relaxed,
      leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a reproach to all his
      tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon him.
    </p>
    <p>
      In most cases this lower jaw—being easily unhinged by a practised
      artist—is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of
      extracting the ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white
      whalebone with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles,
      including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to riding-whips.
    </p>
    <p>
      With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it were an
      anchor; and when the proper time comes—some few days after the other
      work—Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished
      dentists, are set to drawing teeth. With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg
      lances the gums; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle
      being rigged from aloft, they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag
      stumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands. There are generally forty-two
      teeth in all; in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled
      after our artificial fashion. The jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and
      piled away like joists for building houses.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0075">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00080">
      CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Crossing the deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale’s
      head.
    </p>
    <p>
      As in general shape the noble Sperm Whale’s head may be compared to a
      Roman war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded);
      so, at a broad view, the Right Whale’s head bears a rather inelegant
      resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe. Two hundred years ago an old
      Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a shoemaker’s last. And in this
      same last or shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with the swarming
      brood, might very comfortably be lodged, she and all her progeny.
    </p>
    <p>
      But as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different
      aspects, according to your point of view. If you stand on its summit and
      look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole head for
      an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in its
      sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange,
      crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass—this green,
      barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the “crown,” and the Southern
      fishers the “bonnet” of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes solely on this,
      you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak, with a bird’s nest
      in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch those live crabs that nestle
      here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you;
      unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the technical term “crown”
       also bestowed upon it; in which case you will take great interest in
      thinking how this mighty monster is actually a diademed king of the sea,
      whose green crown has been put together for him in this marvellous manner.
      But if this whale be a king, he is a very sulky looking fellow to grace a
      diadem. Look at that hanging lower lip! what a huge sulk and pout is
      there! a sulk and pout, by carpenter’s measurement, about twenty feet long
      and five feet deep; a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons
      of oil and more.
    </p>
    <p>
      A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped. The
      fissure is about a foot across. Probably the mother during an important
      interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes caused the
      beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold, we now slide
      into the mouth. Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should take this to be
      the inside of an Indian wigwam. Good Lord! is this the road that Jonah
      went? The roof is about twelve feet high, and runs to a pretty sharp
      angle, as if there were a regular ridge-pole there; while these ribbed,
      arched, hairy sides, present us with those wondrous, half vertical,
      scimetar-shaped slats of whalebone, say three hundred on a side, which
      depending from the upper part of the head or crown bone, form those
      Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily mentioned. The edges
      of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres, through which the Right
      Whale strains the water, and in whose intricacies he retains the small
      fish, when openmouthed he goes through the seas of brit in feeding time.
      In the central blinds of bone, as they stand in their natural order, there
      are certain curious marks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some
      whalemen calculate the creature’s age, as the age of an oak by its
      circular rings. Though the certainty of this criterion is far from
      demonstrable, yet it has the savor of analogical probability. At any rate,
      if we yield to it, we must grant a far greater age to the Right Whale than
      at first glance will seem reasonable.
    </p>
    <p>
      In old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies
      concerning these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous
      “whiskers” inside of the whale’s mouth;* another, “hogs’ bristles”; a
      third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language:
      “There are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of his
      upper <i>chop</i>, which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth.”
     </p>
    <p>
      *This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or
      rather a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the upper
      part of the outer end of the lower jaw. Sometimes these tufts impart a
      rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance.
    </p>
    <p>
      As every one knows, these same “hogs’ bristles,” “fins,” “whiskers,”
       “blinds,” or whatever you please, furnish to the ladies their busks and
      other stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, the demand has long
      been on the decline. It was in Queen Anne’s time that the bone was in its
      glory, the farthingale being then all the fashion. And as those ancient
      dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of the whale, as you may say;
      even so, in a shower, with the like thoughtlessness, do we nowadays fly
      under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a tent spread over
      the same bone.
    </p>
    <p>
      But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing
      in the Right Whale’s mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all these
      colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not think you
      were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its thousand
      pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest Turkey—the
      tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the mouth. It is very
      fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting it on deck. This
      particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I should say it was a
      six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that amount of oil.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started with—that
      the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely different heads.
      To sum up, then: in the Right Whale’s there is no great well of sperm; no
      ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a lower jaw, like the
      Sperm Whale’s. Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any of those blinds of
      bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a tongue. Again, the
      Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.
    </p>
    <p>
      Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie
      together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will
      not be very long in following.
    </p>
    <p>
      Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale’s there? It is the same he
      died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem now faded
      away. I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie-like placidity, born
      of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark the other head’s
      expression. See that amazing lower lip, pressed by accident against the
      vessel’s side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw. Does not this whole head
      seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in facing death? This
      Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm Whale, a Platonian, who
      might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0076">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00081">
      CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale’s head, I would have you, as
      a sensible physiologist, simply—particularly remark its front
      aspect, in all its compacted collectedness. I would have you investigate
      it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some unexaggerated,
      intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may be lodged there.
      Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily settle this
      matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of the most
      appalling, but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be found in
      all recorded history.
    </p>
    <p>
      You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale, the
      front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the water;
      you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably
      backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
      receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely
      under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth
      were entirely under your chin. Moreover you observe that the whale has no
      external nose; and that what nose he has—his spout hole—is on
      the top of his head; you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides
      of his head, nearly one third of his entire length from the front.
      Wherefore, you must now have perceived that the front of the Sperm Whale’s
      head is a dead, blind wall, without a single organ or tender prominence of
      any sort whatsoever. Furthermore, you are now to consider that only in the
      extreme, lower, backward sloping part of the front of the head, is there
      the slightest vestige of bone; and not till you get near twenty feet from
      the forehead do you come to the full cranial development. So that this
      whole enormous boneless mass is as one wad. Finally, though, as will soon
      be revealed, its contents partly comprise the most delicate oil; yet, you
      are now to be apprised of the nature of the substance which so impregnably
      invests all that apparent effeminacy. In some previous place I have
      described to you how the blubber wraps the body of the whale, as the rind
      wraps an orange. Just so with the head; but with this difference: about
      the head this envelope, though not so thick, is of a boneless toughness,
      inestimable by any man who has not handled it. The severest pointed
      harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human arm, impotently
      rebounds from it. It is as though the forehead of the Sperm Whale were
      paved with horses’ hoofs. I do not think that any sensation lurks in it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Bethink yourself also of another thing. When two large, loaded Indiamen
      chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the
      sailors do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
      contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, they hold there
      a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest and toughest
      of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have
      snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. By itself this
      sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. But supplementary to
      this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that as ordinary fish possess
      what is called a swimming bladder in them, capable, at will, of distension
      or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale, as far as I know, has no such
      provision in him; considering, too, the otherwise inexplicable manner in
      which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface, and anon
      swims with it high elevated out of the water; considering the unobstructed
      elasticity of its envelope; considering the unique interior of his head;
      it has hypothetically occurred to me, I say, that those mystical
      lung-celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and
      unsuspected connexion with the outer air, so as to be susceptible to
      atmospheric distension and contraction. If this be so, fancy the
      irresistibleness of that might, to which the most impalpable and
      destructive of all elements contributes.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, mark. Unerringly impelling this dead, impregnable, uninjurable wall,
      and this most buoyant thing within; there swims behind it all a mass of
      tremendous life, only to be adequately estimated as piled wood is—by
      the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as the smallest insect. So
      that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the specialities and
      concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this expansive monster;
      when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable braining feats; I
      trust you will have renounced all ignorant incredulity, and be ready to
      abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale stove a passage through the
      Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic with the Pacific, you would not
      elevate one hair of your eye-brow. For unless you own the whale, you are
      but a provincial and sentimentalist in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing
      for salamander giants only to encounter; how small the chances for the
      provincials then? What befell the weakling youth lifting the dread
      goddess’s veil at Lais?
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0077">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00082">
      CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Now comes the Baling of the Case. But to comprehend it aright, you must
      know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated
      upon.
    </p>
    <p>
      Regarding the Sperm Whale’s head as a solid oblong, you may, on an
      inclined plane, sideways divide it into two quoins,* whereof the lower is
      the bony structure, forming the cranium and jaws, and the upper an
      unctuous mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming the
      expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale. At the middle of the
      forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and then you have two
      almost equal parts, which before were naturally divided by an internal
      wall of a thick tendinous substance.
    </p>
    <p>
      *Quoin is not a Euclidean term. It belongs to the pure nautical
      mathematics. I know not that it has been defined before. A quoin is a
      solid which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the
      steep inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of both
      sides.
    </p>
    <p>
      The lower subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb of
      oil, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand infiltrated
      cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole extent. The
      upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great Heidelburgh
      Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is mystically
      carved in front, so the whale’s vast plaited forehead forms innumerable
      strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his wondrous tun.
      Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished with the most
      excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tun of the whale
      contains by far the most precious of all his oily vintages; namely, the
      highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure, limpid, and odoriferous
      state. Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed in any other part of
      the creature. Though in life it remains perfectly fluid, yet, upon
      exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to concrete; sending
      forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the first thin delicate ice is
      just forming in water. A large whale’s case generally yields about five
      hundred gallons of sperm, though from unavoidable circumstances,
      considerable of it is spilled, leaks, and dribbles away, or is otherwise
      irrevocably lost in the ticklish business of securing what you can.
    </p>
    <p>
      I know not with what fine and costly material the Heidelburgh Tun was
      coated within, but in superlative richness that coating could not possibly
      have compared with the silken pearl-coloured membrane, like the lining of
      a fine pelisse, forming the inner surface of the Sperm Whale’s case.
    </p>
    <p>
      It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale
      embraces the entire length of the entire top of the head; and since—as
      has been elsewhere set forth—the head embraces one third of the
      whole length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty feet
      for a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
      of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship’s
      side.
    </p>
    <p>
      As in decapitating the whale, the operator’s instrument is brought close
      to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti
      magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest a careless,
      untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its
      invaluable contents. It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which
      is at last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by the
      enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side, make
      quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus much being said, attend now, I pray you, to that marvellous and—in
      this particular instance—almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm
      Whale’s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0078">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00083">
      CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Nimble as a cat, Tashtego mounts aloft; and without altering his erect
      posture, runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard-arm, to the part
      where it exactly projects over the hoisted Tun. He has carried with him a
      light tackle called a whip, consisting of only two parts, travelling
      through a single-sheaved block. Securing this block, so that it hangs down
      from the yard-arm, he swings one end of the rope, till it is caught and
      firmly held by a hand on deck. Then, hand-over-hand, down the other part,
      the Indian drops through the air, till dexterously he lands on the summit
      of the head. There—still high elevated above the rest of the
      company, to whom he vivaciously cries—he seems some Turkish Muezzin
      calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower. A
      short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches for
      the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun. In this business he
      proceeds very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house,
      sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in. By the time this
      cautious search is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like a
      well-bucket, has been attached to one end of the whip; while the other
      end, being stretched across the deck, is there held by two or three alert
      hands. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the Indian, to whom
      another person has reached up a very long pole. Inserting this pole into
      the bucket, Tashtego downward guides the bucket into the Tun, till it
      entirely disappears; then giving the word to the seamen at the whip, up
      comes the bucket again, all bubbling like a dairy-maid’s pail of new milk.
      Carefully lowered from its height, the full-freighted vessel is caught by
      an appointed hand, and quickly emptied into a large tub. Then remounting
      aloft, it again goes through the same round until the deep cistern will
      yield no more. Towards the end, Tashtego has to ram his long pole harder
      and harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of
      the pole have gone down.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way;
      several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at once a
      queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild Indian,
      was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed hold
      on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the place
      where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil One
      himself would have it to fall out so, without stating his particular
      reasons; how it was exactly, there is no telling now; but, on a sudden, as
      the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up—my God! poor
      Tashtego—like the twin reciprocating bucket in a veritable well,
      dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of Heidelburgh, and with a
      horrible oily gurgling, went clean out of sight!
    </p>
    <p>
      “Man overboard!” cried Daggoo, who amid the general consternation first
      came to his senses. “Swing the bucket this way!” and putting one foot into
      it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold on the whip itself,
      the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head, almost before
      Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom. Meantime, there was a
      terrible tumult. Looking over the side, they saw the before lifeless head
      throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea, as if that moment
      seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only the poor Indian
      unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he
      had sunk.
    </p>
    <p>
      At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was clearing the
      whip—which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles—a
      sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all, one
      of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with a vast
      vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship reeled and
      shook as if smitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook, upon which the
      entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be on the point of
      giving way; an event still more likely from the violent motions of the
      head.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Come down, come down!” yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but with one hand
      holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should drop, he would
      still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul line, rammed
      down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the buried
      harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.
    </p>
    <p>
      “In heaven’s name, man,” cried Stubb, “are you ramming home a cartridge
      there?—Avast! How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket
      on top of his head? Avast, will ye!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Stand clear of the tackle!” cried a voice like the bursting of a rocket.
    </p>
    <p>
      Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass dropped
      into the sea, like Niagara’s Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the suddenly
      relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering copper; and
      all caught their breath, as half swinging—now over the sailors’
      heads, and now over the water—Daggoo, through a thick mist of spray,
      was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor,
      buried-alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea!
      But hardly had the blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked figure with
      a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one swift moment seen hovering over
      the bulwarks. The next, a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had
      dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to the side, and every eye
      counted every ripple, as moment followed moment, and no sign of either the
      sinker or the diver could be seen. Some hands now jumped into a boat
      alongside, and pushed a little off from the ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Ha! ha!” cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch
      overhead; and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrust
      upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust
      forth from the grass over a grave.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Both! both!—it is both!”—cried Daggoo again with a joyful
      shout; and soon after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one
      hand, and with the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into
      the waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was
      long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after the
      slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side lunges
      near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then dropping his
      sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards, and so hauled out
      poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon first thrusting in for him, a
      leg was presented; but well knowing that that was not as it ought to be,
      and might occasion great trouble;—he had thrust back the leg, and by
      a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a somerset upon the Indian; so
      that with the next trial, he came forth in the good old way—head
      foremost. As for the great head itself, that was doing as well as could be
      expected.
    </p>
    <p>
      And thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg,
      the deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully
      accomplished, in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently
      hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten.
      Midwifery should be taught in the same course with fencing and boxing,
      riding and rowing.
    </p>
    <p>
      I know that this queer adventure of the Gay-Header’s will be sure to seem
      incredible to some landsmen, though they themselves may have either seen
      or heard of some one’s falling into a cistern ashore; an accident which
      not seldom happens, and with much less reason too than the Indian’s,
      considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of the Sperm Whale’s
      well.
    </p>
    <p>
      But, peradventure, it may be sagaciously urged, how is this? We thought
      the tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and
      most corky part about him; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of a
      far greater specific gravity than itself. We have thee there. Not at all,
      but I have ye; for at the time poor Tash fell in, the case had been nearly
      emptied of its lighter contents, leaving little but the dense tendinous
      wall of the well—a double welded, hammered substance, as I have
      before said, much heavier than the sea water, and a lump of which sinks in
      it like lead almost. But the tendency to rapid sinking in this substance
      was in the present instance materially counteracted by the other parts of
      the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank very slowly and
      deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair chance for performing his
      agile obstetrics on the run, as you may say. Yes, it was a running
      delivery, so it was.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious
      perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
      spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber and
      sanctum sanctorum of the whale. Only one sweeter end can readily be
      recalled—the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking
      honey in the crotch of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it,
      that leaning too far over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed. How
      many, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato’s honey head, and sweetly
      perished there?
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0079">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00084">
      CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.
    </h2>
    <p>
      To scan the lines of his face, or feel the bumps on the head of this
      Leviathan; this is a thing which no Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as
      yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for
      Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar, or for
      Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the Pantheon.
      Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats of the various
      faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of horses, birds,
      serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the modifications of
      expression discernible therein. Nor have Gall and his disciple Spurzheim
      failed to throw out some hints touching the phrenological characteristics
      of other beings than man. Therefore, though I am but ill qualified for a
      pioneer, in the application of these two semi-sciences to the whale, I
      will do my endeavor. I try all things; I achieve what I can.
    </p>
    <p>
      Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. He
      has no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most conspicuous
      of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies and finally controls
      their combined expression; hence it would seem that its entire absence, as
      an external appendage, must very largely affect the countenance of the
      whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire, cupola, monument, or tower
      of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable to the completion of the
      scene; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping without the elevated
      open-work belfry of the nose. Dash the nose from Phidias’s marble Jove,
      and what a sorry remainder! Nevertheless, Leviathan is of so mighty a
      magnitude, all his proportions are so stately, that the same deficiency
      which in the sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no blemish at all.
      Nay, it is an added grandeur. A nose to the whale would have been
      impertinent. As on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast head
      in your jolly-boat, your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by
      the reflection that he has a nose to be pulled. A pestilent conceit, which
      so often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest
      royal beadle on his throne.
    </p>
    <p>
      In some particulars, perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to be
      had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front of his head. This aspect
      is sublime.
    </p>
    <p>
      In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the
      morning. In the repose of the pasture, the curled brow of the bull has a
      touch of the grand in it. Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles, the
      elephant’s brow is majestic. Human or animal, the mystical brow is as that
      great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to their decrees. It
      signifies—“God: done this day by my hand.” But in most creatures,
      nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of alpine land
      lying along the snow line. Few are the foreheads which like Shakespeare’s
      or Melancthon’s rise so high, and descend so low, that the eyes themselves
      seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; and all above them in the
      forehead’s wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered thoughts descending
      there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the snow prints of the deer.
      But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and mighty god-like dignity
      inherent in the brow is so immensely amplified, that gazing on it, in that
      full front view, you feel the Deity and the dread powers more forcibly
      than in beholding any other object in living nature. For you see no one
      point precisely; not one distinct feature is revealed; no nose, eyes,
      ears, or mouth; no face; he has none, proper; nothing but that one broad
      firmament of a forehead, pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with the
      doom of boats, and ships, and men. Nor, in profile, does this wondrous
      brow diminish; though that way viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon
      you so. In profile, you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic
      depression in the forehead’s middle, which, in man, is Lavater’s mark of
      genius.
    </p>
    <p>
      But how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whale ever written a
      book, spoken a speech? No, his great genius is declared in his doing
      nothing particular to prove it. It is moreover declared in his pyramidical
      silence. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale been known to
      the young Orient World, he would have been deified by their child-magian
      thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile, because the crocodile is
      tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue, or at least it is so
      exceedingly small, as to be incapable of protrusion. If hereafter any
      highly cultured, poetical nation shall lure back to their birth-right, the
      merry May-day gods of old; and livingly enthrone them again in the now
      egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted hill; then be sure, exalted to
      Jove’s high seat, the great Sperm Whale shall lord it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there is no
      Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man’s and every being’s face.
      Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing fable. If
      then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could not read the
      simplest peasant’s face in its profounder and more subtle meanings, how
      may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale’s
      brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you can.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0080">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    </body></html>
