<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/><title>Moby Dick; or The Whale</title>


  <link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.13.7 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
  <body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00116">
      CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.
    </h2>
    <p>
      According to usage they were pumping the ship next morning; and lo! no
      inconsiderable oil came up with the water; the casks below must have
      sprung a bad leak. Much concern was shown; and Starbuck went down into the
      cabin to report this unfavourable affair.*
    </p>
    <p>
      *In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it is a
      regular semi-weekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench the
      casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is removed
      by the ship’s pumps. Hereby the casks are sought to be kept damply tight;
      while by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the mariners
      readily detect any serious leakage in the precious cargo.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and
      the Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from the
      China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general
      chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and another
      separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the Japanese islands—Niphon,
      Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white new ivory leg braced against the
      screwed leg of his table, and with a long pruning-hook of a jack-knife in
      his hand, the wondrous old man, with his back to the gangway door, was
      wrinkling his brow, and tracing his old courses again.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Who’s there?” hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round to
      it. “On deck! Begone!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir. We
      must up Burtons and break out.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Up Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here
      for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good
      in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving,
      sir.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “So it is, so it is; if we get it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I was speaking of the oil in the hold, sir.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all. Begone! Let it leak!
      I’m all aleak myself. Aye! leaks in leaks! not only full of leaky casks,
      but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that’s a far worse plight
      than the Pequod’s, man. Yet I don’t stop to plug my leak; for who can find
      it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if found, in this
      life’s howling gale? Starbuck! I’ll not have the Burtons hoisted.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “What will the owners say, sir?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons. What
      cares Ahab? Owners, owners? Thou art always prating to me, Starbuck, about
      those miserly owners, as if the owners were my conscience. But look ye,
      the only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye, my
      conscience is in this ship’s keel.—On deck!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Captain Ahab,” said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin,
      with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost seemed
      not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward manifestation of
      itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of itself; “A
      better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickly
      enough resent in a younger man; aye, and in a happier, Captain Ahab.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Devils! Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?—On
      deck!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat. And I do dare, sir—to be
      forbearing! Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto,
      Captain Ahab?”
     </p>
    <p>
      Ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most
      South-Sea-men’s cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,
      exclaimed: “There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one Captain
      that is lord over the Pequod.—On deck!”
     </p>
    <p>
      For an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate, and his fiery cheeks, you
      would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of the
      levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose, and as he
      quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: “Thou hast outraged,
      not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask thee not to beware of Starbuck;
      thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab; beware of thyself,
      old man.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most careful bravery that!”
       murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared. “What’s that he said—Ahab
      beware of Ahab—there’s something there!” Then unconsciously using
      the musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the
      little cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
      returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Thou art but too good a fellow, Starbuck,” he said lowly to the mate;
      then raising his voice to the crew: “Furl the t’gallant-sails, and
      close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft; back the main-yard; up Burton, and
      break out in the main-hold.”
     </p>
    <p>
      It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting
      Starbuck, Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him; or
      mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously forbade
      the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient, in the
      important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders were
      executed; and the Burtons were hoisted.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0110">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00117">
      CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Upon searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the hold were
      perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, it being calm
      weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the slumbers of the
      huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight sending those
      gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they go; and so
      ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost puncheons,
      that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone cask containing
      coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards, vainly warning
      the infatuated old world from the flood. Tierce after tierce, too, of
      water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and iron bundles of
      hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks were hard to get
      about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if you were treading over
      empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea like an air-freighted
      demijohn. Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all
      Aristotle in his head. Well was it that the Typhoons did not visit them
      then.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, at this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast
      bosom-friend, Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh to
      his endless end.
    </p>
    <p>
      Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;
      dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the higher
      you rise the harder you toil. So with poor Queequeg, who, as harpooneer,
      must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but—as we have
      elsewhere seen—mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and finally
      descend into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating all day in that
      subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the clumsiest casks and
      see to their stowage. To be short, among whalemen, the harpooneers are the
      holders, so called.
    </p>
    <p>
      Poor Queequeg! when the ship was about half disembowelled, you should have
      stooped over the hatchway, and peered down upon him there; where, stripped
      to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage was crawling about amid that
      dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard at the bottom of a well.
      And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to him, poor pagan; where,
      strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings, he caught a terrible
      chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after some days’ suffering,
      laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill of the door of death. How
      he wasted and wasted away in those few long-lingering days, till there
      seemed but little left of him but his frame and tattooing. But as all else
      in him thinned, and his cheek-bones grew sharper, his eyes, nevertheless,
      seemed growing fuller and fuller; they became of a strange softness of
      lustre; and mildly but deeply looked out at you there from his sickness, a
      wondrous testimony to that immortal health in him which could not die, or
      be weakened. And like circles on the water, which, as they grow fainter,
      expand; so his eyes seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of
      Eternity. An awe that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by
      the side of this waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as
      any beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is truly
      wondrous and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And
      the drawing near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all
      with a last revelation, which only an author from the dead could
      adequately tell. So that—let us say it again—no dying Chaldee
      or Greek had higher and holier thoughts than those, whose mysterious
      shades you saw creeping over the face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay
      in his swaying hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to
      his final rest, and the ocean’s invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and
      higher towards his destined heaven.
    </p>
    <p>
      Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself, what
      he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he asked. He
      called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day was just
      breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he had chanced
      to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the rich war-wood of his
      native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that all whalemen who died
      in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes, and that the fancy of
      being so laid had much pleased him; for it was not unlike the custom of
      his own race, who, after embalming a dead warrior, stretched him out in
      his canoe, and so left him to be floated away to the starry archipelagoes;
      for not only do they believe that the stars are isles, but that far beyond
      all visible horizons, their own mild, uncontinented seas, interflow with
      the blue heavens; and so form the white breakers of the milky way. He
      added, that he shuddered at the thought of being buried in his hammock,
      according to the usual sea-custom, tossed like something vile to the
      death-devouring sharks. No: he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket,
      all the more congenial to him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat
      these coffin-canoes were without a keel; though that involved but
      uncertain steering, and much lee-way adown the dim ages.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter was
      at once commanded to do Queequeg’s bidding, whatever it might include.
      There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard, which, upon
      a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal groves of the
      Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coffin was recommended to
      be made. No sooner was the carpenter apprised of the order, than taking
      his rule, he forthwith with all the indifferent promptitude of his
      character, proceeded into the forecastle and took Queequeg’s measure with
      great accuracy, regularly chalking Queequeg’s person as he shifted the
      rule.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Ah! poor fellow! he’ll have to die now,” ejaculated the Long Island
      sailor.
    </p>
    <p>
      Going to his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and general
      reference, now transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin
      was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches at
      its extremities. This done, he marshalled the planks and his tools, and to
      work.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted, he
      lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring whether
      they were ready for it yet in that direction.
    </p>
    <p>
      Overhearing the indignant but half-humorous cries with which the people on
      deck began to drive the coffin away, Queequeg, to every one’s
      consternation, commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to
      him, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of all mortals, some
      dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they will shortly
      trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be indulged.
    </p>
    <p>
      Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin with an
      attentive eye. He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock drawn
      from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along with one of
      the paddles of his boat. All by his own request, also, biscuits were then
      ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water was placed at the
      head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in the hold at the foot;
      and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a pillow, Queequeg now
      entreated to be lifted into his final bed, that he might make trial of its
      comforts, if any it had. He lay without moving a few minutes, then told
      one to go to his bag and bring out his little god, Yojo. Then crossing his
      arms on his breast with Yojo between, he called for the coffin lid (hatch
      he called it) to be placed over him. The head part turned over with a
      leather hinge, and there lay Queequeg in his coffin with little but his
      composed countenance in view. “Rarmai” (it will do; it is easy), he
      murmured at last, and signed to be replaced in his hammock.
    </p>
    <p>
      But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by all this
      while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, took him by
      the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where go
      ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where the
      beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little errand for
      me? Seek out one Pip, who’s now been missing long: I think he’s in those
      far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for he must be very sad;
      for look! he’s left his tambourine behind;—I found it. Rig-a-dig,
      dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I’ll beat ye your dying march.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I have heard,” murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, “that in
      violent fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and
      that when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in their wholly
      forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spoken in their
      hearing by some lofty scholars. So, to my fond faith, poor Pip, in this
      strange sweetness of his lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all our
      heavenly homes. Where learned he that, but there?—Hark! he speaks
      again: but more wildly now.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Form two and two! Let’s make a General of him! Ho, where’s his harpoon?
      Lay it across here.—Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza! Oh for a game cock
      now to sit upon his head and crow! Queequeg dies game!—mind ye that;
      Queequeg dies game!—take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game! I
      say; game, game, game! but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all
      a’shiver;—out upon Pip! Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the
      Antilles he’s a runaway; a coward, a coward, a coward! Tell them he jumped
      from a whale-boat! I’d never beat my tambourine over base Pip, and hail
      him General, if he were once more dying here. No, no! shame upon all
      cowards—shame upon them! Let ’em go drown like Pip, that jumped from
      a whale-boat. Shame! shame!”
     </p>
    <p>
      During all this, Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream. Pip was
      led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock.
    </p>
    <p>
      But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; now that
      his coffin was proved a good fit, Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon there
      seemed no need of the carpenter’s box: and thereupon, when some expressed
      their delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, that the cause of his
      sudden convalescence was this;—at a critical moment, he had just
      recalled a little duty ashore, which he was leaving undone; and therefore
      had changed his mind about dying: he could not die yet, he averred. They
      asked him, then, whether to live or die was a matter of his own sovereign
      will and pleasure. He answered, certainly. In a word, it was Queequeg’s
      conceit, that if a man made up his mind to live, mere sickness could not
      kill him: nothing but a whale, or a gale, or some violent, ungovernable,
      unintelligent destroyer of that sort.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized;
      that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing, generally
      speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day. So, in good
      time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after sitting on the
      windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a vigorous appetite) he
      suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out his arms and legs, gave himself a
      good stretching, yawned a little bit, and then springing into the head of
      his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon, pronounced himself fit for a
      fight.
    </p>
    <p>
      With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and
      emptying into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there. Many
      spare hours he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of grotesque
      figures and drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was striving, in his
      rude way, to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on his body. And this
      tattooing had been the work of a departed prophet and seer of his island,
      who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had written out on his body a complete
      theory of the heavens and the earth, and a mystical treatise on the art of
      attaining truth; so that Queequeg in his own proper person was a riddle to
      unfold; a wondrous work in one volume; but whose mysteries not even
      himself could read, though his own live heart beat against them; and these
      mysteries were therefore destined in the end to moulder away with the
      living parchment whereon they were inscribed, and so be unsolved to the
      last. And this thought it must have been which suggested to Ahab that wild
      exclamation of his, when one morning turning away from surveying poor
      Queequeg—“Oh, devilish tantalization of the gods!”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0111">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00118">
      CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.
    </h2>
    <p>
      When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great South
      Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dear Pacific
      with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my youth was
      answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a thousand leagues of
      blue.
    </p>
    <p>
      There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently
      awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath; like those
      fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St.
      John. And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures, wide-rolling watery
      prairies and Potters’ Fields of all four continents, the waves should rise
      and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions of mixed shades
      and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all that we call
      lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing like slumberers in
      their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their restlessness.
    </p>
    <p>
      To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once beheld, must
      ever after be the sea of his adoption. It rolls the midmost waters of the
      world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms. The same waves
      wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday planted
      by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still gorgeous skirts
      of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between float milky-ways
      of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown Archipelagoes, and
      impenetrable Japans. Thus this mysterious, divine Pacific zones the
      world’s whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay to it; seems the
      tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternal swells, you needs
      must own the seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.
    </p>
    <p>
      But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab’s brain, as standing like an iron
      statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging, with one nostril
      he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles (in whose
      sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with the other consciously
      inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea in which the hated
      White Whale must even then be swimming. Launched at length upon these
      almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese cruising-ground, the
      old man’s purpose intensified itself. His firm lips met like the lips of a
      vice; the Delta of his forehead’s veins swelled like overladen brooks; in
      his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through the vaulted hull, “Stern all!
      the White Whale spouts thick blood!”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0112">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00119">
      CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Availing himself of the mild, summer-cool weather that now reigned in
      these latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active pursuits
      shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the begrimed, blistered old blacksmith,
      had not removed his portable forge to the hold again, after concluding his
      contributory work for Ahab’s leg, but still retained it on deck, fast
      lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being now almost incessantly invoked
      by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen to do some little job for
      them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their various weapons and
      boat furniture. Often he would be surrounded by an eager circle, all
      waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads, harpoons, and
      lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement, as he toiled.
      Nevertheless, this old man’s was a patient hammer wielded by a patient
      arm. No murmur, no impatience, no petulance did come from him. Silent,
      slow, and solemn; bowing over still further his chronically broken back,
      he toiled away, as if toil were life itself, and the heavy beating of his
      hammer the heavy beating of his heart. And so it was.—Most
      miserable!
    </p>
    <p>
      A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing
      yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the
      curiosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted
      questionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every
      one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate.
    </p>
    <p>
      Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter’s midnight, on the road
      running between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly felt the
      deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning,
      dilapidated barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both feet.
      Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four acts of
      the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth act of
      the grief of his life’s drama.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had postponedly
      encountered that thing in sorrow’s technicals called ruin. He had been an
      artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a house and
      garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife, and three blithe,
      ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerful-looking church, planted in
      a grove. But one night, under cover of darkness, and further concealed in
      a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid into his happy home,
      and robbed them all of everything. And darker yet to tell, the blacksmith
      himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into his family’s heart. It
      was the Bottle Conjuror! Upon the opening of that fatal cork, forth flew
      the fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now, for prudent, most wise, and
      economic reasons, the blacksmith’s shop was in the basement of his
      dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so that always had the young
      and loving healthy wife listened with no unhappy nervousness, but with
      vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of her young-armed old husband’s
      hammer; whose reverberations, muffled by passing through the floors and
      walls, came up to her, not unsweetly, in her nursery; and so, to stout
      Labor’s iron lullaby, the blacksmith’s infants were rocked to slumber.
    </p>
    <p>
      Oh, woe on woe! Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely? Hadst
      thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon him,
      then had the young widow had a delicious grief, and her orphans a truly
      venerable, legendary sire to dream of in their after years; and all of
      them a care-killing competency. But Death plucked down some virtuous elder
      brother, on whose whistling daily toil solely hung the responsibilities of
      some other family, and left the worse than useless old man standing, till
      the hideous rot of life should make him easier to harvest.
    </p>
    <p>
      Why tell the whole? The blows of the basement hammer every day grew more
      and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than the last; the
      wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes, glitteringly gazing
      into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell; the forge choked
      up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived down into the long
      church-yard grass; her children twice followed her thither; and the
      houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond in crape; his every
      woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to flaxen curls!
    </p>
    <p>
      Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death is
      only a launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but the
      first salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the Wild, the
      Watery, the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of such men,
      who still have left in them some interior compunctions against suicide,
      does the all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly spread forth
      his whole plain of unimaginable, taking terrors, and wonderful, new-life
      adventures; and from the hearts of infinite Pacifics, the thousand
      mermaids sing to them—“Come hither, broken-hearted; here is another
      life without the guilt of intermediate death; here are wonders
      supernatural, without dying for them. Come hither! bury thyself in a life
      which, to your now equally abhorred and abhorring, landed world, is more
      oblivious than death. Come hither! put up <i>thy</i> gravestone, too, within the
      churchyard, and come hither, till we marry thee!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by fall
      of eve, the blacksmith’s soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth went
      a-whaling.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0113">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00120">
      CHAPTER 113. The Forge.
    </h2>
    <p>
      With matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, about
      mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latter placed
      upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in the coals, and
      with the other at his forge’s lungs, when Captain Ahab came along,
      carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag. While yet a
      little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last, Perth,
      withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it upon the anvil—the
      red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights, some of which
      flew close to Ahab.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Are these thy Mother Carey’s chickens, Perth? they are always flying in
      thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;—look here, they
      burn; but thou—thou liv’st among them without a scorch.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab,” answered Perth, resting
      for a moment on his hammer; “I am past scorching; not easily can’st thou
      scorch a scar.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Well, well; no more. Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woeful to
      me. In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in others that is
      not mad. Thou should’st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thou not go mad?
      How can’st thou endure without being mad? Do the heavens yet hate thee,
      that thou can’st not go mad?—What wert thou making there?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And can’st thou make it all smooth again, blacksmith, after such hard
      usage as it had?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I think so, sir.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And I suppose thou can’st smoothe almost any seams and dents; never mind
      how hard the metal, blacksmith?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Look ye here, then,” cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning with
      both hands on Perth’s shoulders; “look ye here—<i>here</i>—can ye
      smoothe out a seam like this, blacksmith,” sweeping one hand across his
      ribbed brow; “if thou could’st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay my
      head upon thy anvil, and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes. Answer!
      Can’st thou smoothe this seam?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Oh! that is the one, sir! Said I not all seams and dents but one?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for though
      thou only see’st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the bone of
      my skull—<i>that</i> is all wrinkles! But, away with child’s play; no more
      gaffs and pikes to-day. Look ye here!” jingling the leathern bag, as if it
      were full of gold coins. “I, too, want a harpoon made; one that a thousand
      yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will stick in a whale
      like his own fin-bone. There’s the stuff,” flinging the pouch upon the
      anvil. “Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered nail-stubbs of the
      steel shoes of racing horses.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Horse-shoe stubbs, sir? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, then, the best
      and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the
      melted bones of murderers. Quick! forge me the harpoon. And forge me
      first, twelve rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these
      twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow-line. Quick! I’ll blow
      the fire.”
     </p>
    <p>
      When at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by
      spiralling them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt. “A
      flaw!” rejecting the last one. “Work that over again, Perth.”
     </p>
    <p>
      This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when Ahab
      stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, then, with
      regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to him the
      glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge shooting up
      its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and bowing over
      his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse or some blessing on
      the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside.
    </p>
    <p>
      “What’s that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?” muttered Stubb,
      looking on from the forecastle. “That Parsee smells fire like a fusee; and
      smells of it himself, like a hot musket’s powder-pan.”
     </p>
    <p>
      At last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as
      Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near
      by, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab’s bent face.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Would’st thou brand me, Perth?” wincing for a moment with the pain; “have
      I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this
      harpoon for the White Whale?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them thyself,
      man. Here are my razors—the best of steel; here, and make the barbs
      sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea.”
     </p>
    <p>
      For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain
      not use them.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Take them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup,
      nor pray till—but here—to work!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to the shank,
      the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the blacksmith was
      about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering them, he cried
      to Ahab to place the water-cask near.
    </p>
    <p>
      “No, no—no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper. Ahoy,
      there! Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo! What say ye, pagans! Will ye give me as
      much blood as will cover this barb?” holding it high up. A cluster of dark
      nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh, and the
      White Whale’s barbs were then tempered.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!” deliriously
      howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the baptismal
      blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one of hickory,
      with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the socket of the
      iron. A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms of it
      taken to the windlass, and stretched to a great tension. Pressing his foot
      upon it, till the rope hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly bending
      over it, and seeing no strandings, Ahab exclaimed, “Good! and now for the
      seizings.”
     </p>
    <p>
      At one extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns
      were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole was
      then driven hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope was
      traced half-way along the pole’s length, and firmly secured so, with
      intertwistings of twine. This done, pole, iron, and rope—like the
      Three Fates—remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away with
      the weapon; the sound of his ivory leg, and the sound of the hickory pole,
      both hollowly ringing along every plank. But ere he entered his cabin,
      light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most piteous sound was heard. Oh,
      Pip! thy wretched laugh, thy idle but unresting eye; all thy strange
      mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of the melancholy
      ship, and mocked it!
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0114">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00121">
      CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Penetrating further and further into the heart of the Japanese cruising
      ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery. Often, in mild,
      pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on the
      stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily pulling, or sailing, or
      paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of sixty or seventy minutes
      calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but small success for their
      pains.
    </p>
    <p>
      At such times, under an abated sun; afloat all day upon smooth, slow
      heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and so
      sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stone
      cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamy
      quietude, when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the ocean’s
      skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; and would not
      willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a remorseless fang.
    </p>
    <p>
      These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels a
      certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that he
      regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealing only
      the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high rolling
      waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when the
      western emigrants’ horses only show their erected ears, while their hidden
      bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.
    </p>
    <p>
      The long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these there
      steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-wearied children lie
      sleeping in these solitudes, in some glad May-time, when the flowers of
      the woods are plucked. And all this mixes with your most mystic mood; so
      that fact and fancy, half-way meeting, interpenetrate, and form one
      seamless whole.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nor did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as
      temporary an effect on Ahab. But if these secret golden keys did seem to
      open in him his own secret golden treasuries, yet did his breath upon them
      prove but tarnishing.
    </p>
    <p>
      Oh, grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in ye,—though
      long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life,—in ye, men yet
      may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some few
      fleeting moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them. Would to
      God these blessed calms would last. But the mingled, mingling threads of
      life are woven by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a storm for
      every calm. There is no steady unretracing progress in this life; we do
      not advance through fixed gradations, and at the last one pause:—through
      infancy’s unconscious spell, boyhood’s thoughtless faith, adolescence’
      doubt (the common doom), then scepticism, then disbelief, resting at last
      in manhood’s pondering repose of If. But once gone through, we trace the
      round again; and are infants, boys, and men, and Ifs eternally. Where lies
      the final harbor, whence we unmoor no more? In what rapt ether sails the
      world, of which the weariest will never weary? Where is the foundling’s
      father hidden? Our souls are like those orphans whose unwedded mothers die
      in bearing them: the secret of our paternity lies in their grave, and we
      must there to learn it.
    </p>
    <p>
      And that same day, too, gazing far down from his boat’s side into that
      same golden sea, Starbuck lowly murmured:—
    </p>
    <p>
      “Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride’s eye!—Tell
      me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy kidnapping cannibal ways. Let
      faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deep down and do believe.”
     </p>
    <p>
      And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales, leaped up in that same golden
      light:—
    </p>
    <p>
      “I am Stubb, and Stubb has his history; but here Stubb takes oaths that he
      has always been jolly!”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0115">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00122">
      CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.
    </h2>
    <p>
      And jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down
      before the wind, some few weeks after Ahab’s harpoon had been welded.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a Nantucket ship, the Bachelor, which had just wedged in her last
      cask of oil, and bolted down her bursting hatches; and now, in glad
      holiday apparel, was joyously, though somewhat vain-gloriously, sailing
      round among the widely-separated ships on the ground, previous to pointing
      her prow for home.
    </p>
    <p>
      The three men at her mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting
      at their hats; from the stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down;
      and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the
      last whale they had slain. Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colours were
      flying from her rigging, on every side. Sideways lashed in each of her
      three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm; above which, in her
      top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of the same precious fluid;
      and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp.
    </p>
    <p>
      As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most surprising
      success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same seas
      numerous other vessels had gone entire months without securing a single
      fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread been given away to make room
      for the far more valuable sperm, but additional supplemental casks had
      been bartered for, from the ships she had met; and these were stowed along
      the deck, and in the captain’s and officers’ state-rooms. Even the cabin
      table itself had been knocked into kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined
      off the broad head of an oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a
      centrepiece. In the forecastle, the sailors had actually caulked and
      pitched their chests, and filled them; it was humorously added, that the
      cook had clapped a head on his largest boiler, and filled it; that the
      steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and filled it; that the
      harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and filled them; that
      indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the captain’s pantaloons
      pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands into, in
      self-complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction.
    </p>
    <p>
      As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the
      barbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle; and drawing
      still nearer, a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge
      try-pots, which, covered with the parchment-like <i>poke</i> or stomach skin of
      the black fish, gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clenched
      hands of the crew. On the quarter-deck, the mates and harpooneers were
      dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped with them from the
      Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat, firmly secured
      aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island negroes, with
      glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the hilarious
      jig. Meanwhile, others of the ship’s company were tumultuously busy at the
      masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been removed. You
      would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed Bastille, such
      wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and mortar were being
      hurled into the sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the ship’s
      elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was full before
      him, and seemed merely contrived for his own individual diversion.
    </p>
    <p>
      And Ahab, he too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black, with
      a stubborn gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other’s wakes—one
      all jubilations for things passed, the other all forebodings as to things
      to come—their two captains in themselves impersonated the whole
      striking contrast of the scene.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Come aboard, come aboard!” cried the gay Bachelor’s commander, lifting a
      glass and a bottle in the air.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Hast seen the White Whale?” gritted Ahab in reply.
    </p>
    <p>
      “No; only heard of him; but don’t believe in him at all,” said the other
      good-humoredly. “Come aboard!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Thou art too damned jolly. Sail on. Hast lost any men?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Not enough to speak of—two islanders, that’s all;—but come
      aboard, old hearty, come along. I’ll soon take that black from your brow.
      Come along, will ye (merry’s the play); a full ship and homeward-bound.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “How wondrous familiar is a fool!” muttered Ahab; then aloud, “Thou art a
      full ship and homeward bound, thou sayst; well, then, call me an empty
      ship, and outward-bound. So go thy ways, and I will mine. Forward there!
      Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!”
     </p>
    <p>
      And thus, while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other
      stubbornly fought against it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew of
      the Pequod looking with grave, lingering glances towards the receding
      Bachelor; but the Bachelor’s men never heeding their gaze for the lively
      revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the
      homeward-bound craft, he took from his pocket a small vial of sand, and
      then looking from the ship to the vial, seemed thereby bringing two remote
      associations together, for that vial was filled with Nantucket soundings.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0116">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00123">
      CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Not seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune’s favourites
      sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the
      rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemed it
      with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor, whales
      were seen and four were slain; and one of them by Ahab.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of the crimson
      fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky, sun and
      whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and such
      plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air, that
      it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of the
      Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had gone
      to sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.
    </p>
    <p>
      Soothed again, but only soothed to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned off
      from the whale, sat intently watching his final wanings from the now
      tranquil boat. For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whales
      dying—the turning sunwards of the head, and so expiring—that
      strange spectacle, beheld of such a placid evening, somehow to Ahab
      conveyed a wondrousness unknown before.
    </p>
    <p>
      “He turns and turns him to it,—how slowly, but how steadfastly, his
      homage-rendering and invoking brow, with his last dying motions. He too
      worships fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun!—Oh
      that these too-favouring eyes should see these too-favouring sights. Look!
      here, far water-locked; beyond all hum of human weal or woe; in these most
      candid and impartial seas; where to traditions no rocks furnish tablets;
      where for long Chinese ages, the billows have still rolled on speechless
      and unspoken to, as stars that shine upon the Niger’s unknown source;
      here, too, life dies sunwards full of faith; but see! no sooner dead, than
      death whirls round the corpse, and it heads some other way.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned bones hast builded
      thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured seas; thou
      art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to me in the
      wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm. Nor
      has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round
      again, without a lesson to me.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power! Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed
      jet!—that one strivest, this one jettest all in vain! In vain, oh
      whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon all-quickening sun, that only
      calls forth life, but gives it not again. Yet dost thou, darker half, rock
      me with a prouder, if a darker faith. All thy unnamable imminglings float
      beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of once living things, exhaled as
      air, but water now.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Then hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild fowl
      finds his only rest. Born of earth, yet suckled by the sea; though hill
      and valley mothered me, ye billows are my foster-brothers!”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0117">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00124">
      CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.
    </h2>
    <p>
      The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far to
      windward; one, less distant, to leeward; one ahead; one astern. These last
      three were brought alongside ere nightfall; but the windward one could not
      be reached till morning; and the boat that had killed it lay by its side
      all night; and that boat was Ahab’s.
    </p>
    <p>
      The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale’s spout-hole; and the
      lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare upon the
      black, glossy back, and far out upon the midnight waves, which gently
      chafed the whale’s broad flank, like soft surf upon a beach.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ahab and all his boat’s crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who crouching
      in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round the
      whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. A sound like
      the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of
      Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air.
    </p>
    <p>
      Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; and hooped
      round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a flooded
      world. “I have dreamed it again,” said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor coffin
      can be thine?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And who are hearsed that die on the sea?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two
      hearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made by
      mortal hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in
      America.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Aye, aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:—a hearse and its plumes
      floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a
      sight we shall not soon see.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And what was that saying about thyself?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And when thou art so gone before—if that ever befall—then ere
      I can follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still?—Was
      it not so? Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot! I have here
      two pledges that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Take another pledge, old man,” said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up
      like fire-flies in the gloom—“Hemp only can kill thee.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “The gallows, ye mean.—I am immortal then, on land and on sea,”
       cried Ahab, with a laugh of derision;—“Immortal on land and on sea!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Both were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and the
      slumbering crew arose from the boat’s bottom, and ere noon the dead whale
      was brought to the ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0118">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00125">
      CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.
    </h2>
    <p>
      The season for the Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab,
      coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman would
      ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager mariners quickly run to
      the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed on
      the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the ship’s prow for
      the equator. In good time the order came. It was hard upon high noon; and
      Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was about taking his
      wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his latitude.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of
      effulgences. That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing focus
      of the glassy ocean’s immeasurable burning-glass. The sky looks lacquered;
      clouds there are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness of
      unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors of God’s throne. Well
      that Ahab’s quadrant was furnished with coloured glasses, through which to
      take sight of that solar fire. So, swinging his seated form to the roll of
      the ship, and with his astrological-looking instrument placed to his eye,
      he remained in that posture for some moments to catch the precise instant
      when the sun should gain its precise meridian. Meantime while his whole
      attention was absorbed, the Parsee was kneeling beneath him on the ship’s
      deck, and with face thrown up like Ahab’s, was eyeing the same sun with
      him; only the lids of his eyes half hooded their orbs, and his wild face
      was subdued to an earthly passionlessness. At length the desired
      observation was taken; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahab soon
      calculated what his latitude must be at that precise instant. Then falling
      into a moment’s revery, he again looked up towards the sun and murmured to
      himself: “Thou sea-mark! thou high and mighty Pilot! thou tellest me truly
      where I <i>am</i>—but canst thou cast the least hint where I <i>shall</i> be? Or
      canst thou tell where some other thing besides me is this moment living?
      Where is Moby Dick? This instant thou must be eyeing him. These eyes of
      mine look into the very eye that is even now beholding him; aye, and into
      the eye that is even now equally beholding the objects on the unknown,
      thither side of thee, thou sun!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, its
      numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered:
      “Foolish toy! babies’ plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores, and
      Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; but what
      after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where thou
      thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds thee:
      no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop of water or one
      grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence thou
      insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed be all
      the things that cast man’s eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live vividness
      but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched with thy light,
      O sun! Level by nature to this earth’s horizon are the glances of man’s
      eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as if God had meant him to gaze
      on his firmament. Curse thee, thou quadrant!” dashing it to the deck, “no
      longer will I guide my earthly way by thee; the level ship’s compass, and
      the level dead-reckoning, by log and by line; <i>these</i> shall conduct me, and
      show me my place on the sea. Aye,” lighting from the boat to the deck,
      “thus I trample on thee, thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high;
      thus I split and destroy thee!”
     </p>
    <p>
      As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live and dead
      feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a fatalistic
      despair that seemed meant for himself—these passed over the mute,
      motionless Parsee’s face. Unobserved he rose and glided away; while,
      awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered together
      on the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck, shouted out—“To
      the braces! Up helm!—square in!”
     </p>
    <p>
      In an instant the yards swung round; and as the ship half-wheeled upon her
      heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon her long,
      ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one sufficient
      steed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod’s
      tumultuous way, and Ahab’s also, as he went lurching along the deck.
    </p>
    <p>
      “I have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of
      its tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down,
      to dumbest dust. Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life of thine, what
      will at length remain but one little heap of ashes!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Aye,” cried Stubb, “but sea-coal ashes—mind ye that, Mr. Starbuck—sea-coal,
      not your common charcoal. Well, well; I heard Ahab mutter, ‘Here some one
      thrusts these cards into these old hands of mine; swears that I must play
      them, and no others.’ And damn me, Ahab, but thou actest right; live in
      the game, and die in it!”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0119">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00126">
      CHAPTER 119. The Candles.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal crouches
      in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies the most effulgent but basket
      the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows tornadoes that never swept
      tame northern lands. So, too, it is, that in these resplendent Japanese
      seas the mariner encounters the direst of all storms, the Typhoon. It will
      sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky, like an exploding bomb upon a
      dazed and sleepy town.
    </p>
    <p>
      Towards evening of that day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and
      bare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly
      ahead. When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with the
      thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that showed the disabled masts
      fluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of the
      tempest had left for its after sport.
    </p>
    <p>
      Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every
      flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster
      might have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask were
      directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the boats.
      But all their pains seemed naught. Though lifted to the very top of the
      cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab’s) did not escape. A great rolling
      sea, dashing high up against the reeling ship’s high teetering side, stove
      in the boat’s bottom at the stern, and left it again, all dripping through
      like a sieve.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck,” said Stubb, regarding the wreck, “but
      the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can’t fight it. You see, Mr.
      Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all round
      the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me, all the start
      I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. But never mind; it’s all
      in fun: so the old song says;”—(<i>sings</i>.)
    </p>
<pre>  Oh! jolly is the gale,
  And a joker is the whale,
  A’ flourishin’ his tail,—
  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!

  The scud all a flyin’,
  That’s his flip only foamin’;
  When he stirs in the spicin’,—
  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!

  Thunder splits the ships,
  But he only smacks his lips,
  A tastin’ of this flip,—
  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
</pre>
    <p>
      “Avast Stubb,” cried Starbuck, “let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp
      here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy
      peace.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “But I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward;
      and I sing to keep up my spirits. And I tell you what it is, Mr. Starbuck,
      there’s no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my throat. And
      when that’s done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a wind-up.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Madman! look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “What! how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, never
      mind how foolish?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Here!” cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his
      hand towards the weather bow, “markest thou not that the gale comes from
      the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? the very
      course he swung to this day noon? now mark his boat there; where is that
      stove? In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand—his
      stand-point is stove, man! Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou
      must!
    </p>
    <p>
      “I don’t half understand ye: what’s in the wind?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket,”
       soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb’s question. “The gale
      that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it into a fair wind that
      will drive us towards home. Yonder, to windward, all is blackness of doom;
      but to leeward, homeward—I see it lightens up there; but not with
      the lightning.”
     </p>
    <p>
      At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness, following the
      flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same instant a
      volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Who’s there?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Old Thunder!” said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his
      pivot-hole; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed
      lances of fire.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off the
      perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some ships
      carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water. But as this
      conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may avoid all
      contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly towing there,
      it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering not a little with
      some of the rigging, and more or less impeding the vessel’s way in the
      water; because of all this, the lower parts of a ship’s lightning-rods are
      not always overboard; but are generally made in long slender links, so as
      to be the more readily hauled up into the chains outside, or thrown down
      into the sea, as occasion may require.
    </p>
    <p>
      “The rods! the rods!” cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to
      vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux, to
      light Ahab to his post. “Are they overboard? drop them over, fore and aft.
      Quick!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Avast!” cried Ahab; “let’s have fair play here, though we be the weaker
      side. Yet I’ll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that
      all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let them be, sir.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Look aloft!” cried Starbuck. “The corpusants! the corpusants!”
     </p>
    <p>
      All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each
      tri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of
      the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like
      three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Blast the boat! let it go!” cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing
      sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently
      jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. “Blast it!”—but
      slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
      immediately shifting his tone he cried—“The corpusants have mercy on
      us all!”
     </p>
    <p>
      To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of
      the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses from
      the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething sea; but
      in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when God’s burning
      finger has been laid on the ship; when His “Mene, Mene, Tekel Upharsin”
       has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.
    </p>
    <p>
      While this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from the
      enchanted crew; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle, all
      their eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far away
      constellation of stars. Relieved against the ghostly light, the gigantic
      jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, and seemed the
      black cloud from which the thunder had come. The parted mouth of Tashtego
      revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely gleamed as if they too had
      been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the preternatural light,
      Queequeg’s tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body.
    </p>
    <p>
      The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more the
      Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall. A moment or two
      passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one. It was
      Stubb. “What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the same
      in the song.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “No, no, it wasn’t; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I hope
      they will, still. But do they only have mercy on long faces?—have
      they no bowels for a laugh? And look ye, Mr. Starbuck—but it’s too
      dark to look. Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign
      of good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be
      chock a’ block with sperm-oil, d’ye see; and so, all that sperm will work
      up into the masts, like sap in a tree. Yes, our three masts will yet be as
      three spermaceti candles—that’s the good promise we saw.”
     </p>
    <p>
      At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb’s face slowly beginning to
      glimmer into sight. Glancing upwards, he cried: “See! see!” and once more
      the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled
      supernaturalness in their pallor.
    </p>
    <p>
      “The corpusants have mercy on us all,” cried Stubb, again.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the base of the mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame, the
      Parsee was kneeling in Ahab’s front, but with his head bowed away from
      him; while near by, from the arched and overhanging rigging, where they
      had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of the seamen, arrested by
      the glare, now cohered together, and hung pendulous, like a knot of numbed
      wasps from a drooping, orchard twig. In various enchanted attitudes, like
      the standing, or stepping, or running skeletons in Herculaneum, others
      remained rooted to the deck; but all their eyes upcast.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Aye, aye, men!” cried Ahab. “Look up at it; mark it well; the white flame
      but lights the way to the White Whale! Hand me those mainmast links there;
      I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against it; blood against
      fire! So.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Then turning—the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his
      foot upon the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm,
      he stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Oh! thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian once
      did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that to this
      hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now know
      that thy right worship is defiance. To neither love nor reverence wilt
      thou be kind; and e’en for hate thou canst but kill; and all are killed.
      No fearless fool now fronts thee. I own thy speechless, placeless power;
      but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will dispute its unconditional,
      unintegral mastery in me. In the midst of the personified impersonal, a
      personality stands here. Though but a point at best; whencesoe’er I came;
      wheresoe’er I go; yet while I earthly live, the queenly personality lives
      in me, and feels her royal rights. But war is pain, and hate is woe. Come
      in thy lowest form of love, and I will kneel and kiss thee; but at thy
      highest, come as mere supernal power; and though thou launchest navies of
      full-freighted worlds, there’s that in here that still remains
      indifferent. Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a
      true child of fire, I breathe it back to thee.”
     </p>
    <p>
      [<i>Sudden, repeated flashes of lightning; the nine flames leap lengthwise to
      thrice their previous height; Ahab, with the rest, closes his eyes, his
      right hand pressed hard upon them.</i>]
    </p>
    <p>
      “I own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so? Nor was it wrung
      from me; nor do I now drop these links. Thou canst blind; but I can then
      grope. Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes. Take the homage of
      these poor eyes, and shutter-hands. I would not take it. The lightning
      flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; my whole beaten
      brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning ground. Oh, oh! Yet
      blindfold, yet will I talk to thee. Light though thou be, thou leapest out
      of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light, leaping out of thee!
      The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not? There burn the flames! Oh,
      thou magnanimous! now I do glory in my genealogy. But thou art but my
      fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not. Oh, cruel! what hast thou done
      with her? There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater. Thou knowest not how
      came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten; certainly knowest not thy
      beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun. I know that of me, which thou
      knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent. There is some unsuffusing
      thing beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom all thy eternity is but
      time, all thy creativeness mechanical. Through thee, thy flaming self, my
      scorched eyes do dimly see it. Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit
      immemorial, thou too hast thy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated
      grief. Here again with haughty agony, I read my sire. Leap! leap up, and
      lick the sky! I leap with thee; I burn with thee; would fain be welded
      with thee; defyingly I worship thee!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “The boat! the boat!” cried Starbuck, “look at thy boat, old man!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Ahab’s harpoon, the one forged at Perth’s fire, remained firmly lashed in
      its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat’s bow;
      but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather sheath
      to drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a levelled flame
      of pale, forked fire. As the silent harpoon burned there like a serpent’s
      tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm—“God, God is against thee,
      old man; forbear! ’tis an ill voyage! ill begun, ill continued; let me
      square the yards, while we may, old man, and make a fair wind of it
      homewards, to go on a better voyage than this.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken crew instantly ran to the braces—though
      not a sail was left aloft. For the moment all the aghast mate’s thoughts
      seemed theirs; they raised a half mutinous cry. But dashing the rattling
      lightning links to the deck, and snatching the burning harpoon, Ahab waved
      it like a torch among them; swearing to transfix with it the first sailor
      that but cast loose a rope’s end. Petrified by his aspect, and still more
      shrinking from the fiery dart that he held, the men fell back in dismay,
      and Ahab again spoke:—
    </p>
    <p>
      “All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and heart,
      soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that ye may know to
      what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out the last fear!”
       And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the flame.
    </p>
    <p>
      As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of
      some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it so
      much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts; so
      at those last words of Ahab’s many of the mariners did run from him in a
      terror of dismay.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0120">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00127">
      CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.
    </h2>
    <p>
      <i>Ahab standing by the helm. Starbuck approaching him.</i>
     </p>
    <p>
      “We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working loose
      and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Strike nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I’d sway them up now.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Sir!—in God’s name!—sir?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Well.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “The anchors are working, sir. Shall I get them inboard?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Strike nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything. The wind rises,
      but it has not got up to my table-lands yet. Quick, and see to it.—By
      masts and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some coasting
      smack. Send down my main-top-sail yard! Ho, gluepots! Loftiest trucks were
      made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine now sails amid the
      cloud-scud. Shall I strike that? Oh, none but cowards send down their
      brain-trucks in tempest time. What a hooroosh aloft there! I would e’en
      take it for sublime, did I not know that the colic is a noisy malady. Oh,
      take medicine, take medicine!”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0121">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00128">
      CHAPTER 121. Midnight.—The Forecastle Bulwarks.
    </h2>
    <p>
      <i>Stubb and Flask mounted on them, and passing additional lashings over the
      anchors there hanging.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      “No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please, but you
      will never pound into me what you were just now saying. And how long ago
      is it since you said the very contrary? Didn’t you once say that whatever
      ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its insurance
      policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of
      lucifers forward? Stop, now; didn’t you say so?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Well, suppose I did? What then? I’ve part changed my flesh since that
      time, why not my mind? Besides, supposing we <i>are</i> loaded with powder
      barrels aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers get
      afire in this drenching spray here? Why, my little man, you have pretty
      red hair, but you couldn’t get afire now. Shake yourself; you’re Aquarius,
      or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coat collar. Don’t
      you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine Insurance companies
      have extra guarantees? Here are hydrants, Flask. But hark, again, and I’ll
      answer ye the other thing. First take your leg off from the crown of the
      anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope; now listen. What’s the mighty
      difference between holding a mast’s lightning-rod in the storm, and
      standing close by a mast that hasn’t got any lightning-rod at all in a
      storm? Don’t you see, you timber-head, that no harm can come to the holder
      of the rod, unless the mast is first struck? What are you talking about,
      then? Not one ship in a hundred carries rods, and Ahab,—aye, man,
      and all of us,—were in no more danger then, in my poor opinion, than
      all the crews in ten thousand ships now sailing the seas. Why, you
      King-Post, you, I suppose you would have every man in the world go about
      with a small lightning-rod running up the corner of his hat, like a
      militia officer’s skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash. Why
      don’t ye be sensible, Flask? it’s easy to be sensible; why don’t ye, then?
      any man with half an eye can be sensible.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I don’t know that, Stubb. You sometimes find it rather hard.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Yes, when a fellow’s soaked through, it’s hard to be sensible, that’s a
      fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch the turn
      there, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors now as
      if they were never going to be used again. Tying these two anchors here,
      Flask, seems like tying a man’s hands behind him. And what big generous
      hands they are, to be sure. These are your iron fists, hey? What a hold
      they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether the world is anchored anywhere;
      if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable, though. There, hammer
      that knot down, and we’ve done. So; next to touching land, lighting on
      deck is the most satisfactory. I say, just wring out my jacket skirts,
      will ye? Thank ye. They laugh at long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a
      long tailed coat ought always to be worn in all storms afloat. The tails
      tapering down that way, serve to carry off the water, d’ye see. Same with
      cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask. No more
      monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and
      drive down a beaver; so. Halloa! whew! there goes my tarpaulin overboard;
      Lord, Lord, that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly!
      This is a nasty night, lad.”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0122">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00129">
      CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.—Thunder and Lightning.
    </h2>
    <p>
      <i>The main-top-sail yard</i>.—<i>Tashtego passing new lashings around it</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Um, um, um. Stop that thunder! Plenty too much thunder up here. What’s
      the use of thunder? Um, um, um. We don’t want thunder; we want rum; give
      us a glass of rum. Um, um, um!”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0123">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00130">
      CHAPTER 123. The Musket.
    </h2>
    <p>
      During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the Pequod’s
      jaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by its
      spasmodic motions, even though preventer tackles had been attached to it—for
      they were slack—because some play to the tiller was indispensable.
    </p>
    <p>
      In a severe gale like this, while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock to
      the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the compasses,
      at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with the Pequod’s; at almost
      every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice the whirling velocity
      with which they revolved upon the cards; it is a sight that hardly anyone
      can behold without some sort of unwonted emotion.
    </p>
    <p>
      Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the
      strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb—one engaged forward and
      the other aft—the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and
      main-top-sails were cut adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to
      leeward, like the feathers of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to
      the winds when that storm-tossed bird is on the wing.
    </p>
    <p>
      The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and a
      storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went through the
      water with some precision again; and the course—for the present,
      East-south-east—which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more
      given to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only
      steered according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing the ship
      as near her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo! a good
      sign! the wind seemed coming round astern; aye, the foul breeze became
      fair!
    </p>
    <p>
      Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of “<i>Ho! the fair
      wind! oh-ye-ho, cheerly men!</i>” the crew singing for joy, that so promising
      an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents preceding it.
    </p>
    <p>
      In compliance with the standing order of his commander—to report
      immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change
      in the affairs of the deck,—Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards
      to the breeze—however reluctantly and gloomily,—than he
      mechanically went below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ere knocking at his state-room, he involuntarily paused before it a
      moment. The cabin lamp—taking long swings this way and that—was
      burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man’s bolted
      door,—a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper
      panels. The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming
      silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of the
      elements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as they
      stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an honest,
      upright man; but out of Starbuck’s heart, at that instant when he saw the
      muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with its
      neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew it for
      itself.
    </p>
    <p>
      “He would have shot me once,” he murmured, “yes, there’s the very musket
      that he pointed at me;—that one with the studded stock; let me touch
      it—lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly lances,
      strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye, aye; and
      powder in the pan;—that’s not good. Best spill it?—wait. I’ll
      cure myself of this. I’ll hold the musket boldly while I think.—I
      come to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and doom,—<i>that’s</i>
      fair for Moby Dick. It’s a fair wind that’s only fair for that accursed
      fish.—The very tube he pointed at me!—the very one; <i>this</i> one—I
      hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I handle now.—Aye
      and he would fain kill all his crew. Does he not say he will not strike
      his spars to any gale? Has he not dashed his heavenly quadrant? and in
      these same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere dead reckoning of
      the error-abounding log? and in this very Typhoon, did he not swear that
      he would have no lightning-rods? But shall this crazed old man be tamely
      suffered to drag a whole ship’s company down to doom with him?—Yes,
      it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more, if this ship
      come to any deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship
      will, if Ahab have his way. If, then, he were this instant—put
      aside, that crime would not be his. Ha! is he muttering in his sleep? Yes,
      just there,—in there, he’s sleeping. Sleeping? aye, but still alive,
      and soon awake again. I can’t withstand thee, then, old man. Not
      reasoning; not remonstrance; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this
      thou scornest. Flat obedience to thy own flat commands, this is all thou
      breathest. Aye, and say’st the men have vow’d thy vow; say’st all of us
      are Ahabs. Great God forbid!—But is there no other way? no lawful
      way?—Make him a prisoner to be taken home? What! hope to wrest this
      old man’s living power from his own living hands? Only a fool would try
      it. Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with ropes and hawsers;
      chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would be more hideous
      than a caged tiger, then. I could not endure the sight; could not possibly
      fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable reason would
      leave me on the long intolerable voyage. What, then, remains? The land is
      hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest. I stand alone here
      upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between me and
      law.—Aye, aye, ’tis so.—Is heaven a murderer when its
      lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets and
      skin together?—And would I be a murderer, then, if”—and
      slowly, stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded
      musket’s end against the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      “On this level, Ahab’s hammock swings within; his head this way. A touch,
      and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.—Oh Mary!
      Mary!—boy! boy! boy!—But if I wake thee not to death, old man,
      who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck’s body this day week may
      sink, with all the crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shall I?—The
      wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails are reefed
      and set; she heads her course.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Stern all! Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart at last!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man’s
      tormented sleep, as if Starbuck’s voice had caused the long dumb dream to
      speak.
    </p>
    <p>
      The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard’s arm against the panel;
      Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
      placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.
    </p>
    <p>
      “He’s too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell
      him. I must see to the deck here. Thou know’st what to say.”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0124">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00131">
      CHAPTER 124. The Needle.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of
      mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod’s gurgling track, pushed her on
      like giants’ palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded so,
      that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world boomed
      before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, the invisible sun was
      only known by the spread intensity of his place; where his bayonet rays
      moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian kings and
      queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a crucible of molten gold,
      that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.
    </p>
    <p>
      Long maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time
      the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye
      the bright sun’s rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly settled by
      the stern, he turned behind, and saw the sun’s rearward place, and how the
      same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating wake.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Ha, ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea-chariot of
      the sun. Ho, ho! all ye nations before my prow, I bring the sun to ye!
      Yoke on the further billows; hallo! a tandem, I drive the sea!”
     </p>
    <p>
      But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards the
      helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.
    </p>
    <p>
      “East-sou-east, sir,” said the frightened steersman.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Thou liest!” smiting him with his clenched fist. “Heading East at this
      hour in the morning, and the sun astern?”
     </p>
    <p>
      Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then observed
      by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very blinding
      palpableness must have been the cause.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thrusting his head half way into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse of
      the compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost seemed
      to stagger. Standing behind him Starbuck looked, and lo! the two compasses
      pointed East, and the Pequod was as infallibly going West.
    </p>
    <p>
      But ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew, the old
      man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, “I have it! It has happened before. Mr.
      Starbuck, last night’s thunder turned our compasses—that’s all. Thou
      hast before now heard of such a thing, I take it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir,” said the pale mate,
      gloomily.
    </p>
    <p>
      Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in more than
      one case occurred to ships in violent storms. The magnetic energy, as
      developed in the mariner’s needle, is, as all know, essentially one with
      the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be much marvelled at,
      that such things should be. Instances where the lightning has actually
      struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the spars and rigging, the
      effect upon the needle has at times been still more fatal; all its
      loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before magnetic steel was
      of no more use than an old wife’s knitting needle. But in either case, the
      needle never again, of itself, recovers the original virtue thus marred or
      lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected, the same fate reaches all
      the others that may be in the ship; even were the lowermost one inserted
      into the kelson.
    </p>
    <p>
      Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and eyeing the transpointed
      compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his extended hand, now took the
      precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that the needles were exactly
      inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship’s course to be changed
      accordingly. The yards were hard up; and once more the Pequod thrust her
      undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed fair one had only
      been juggling her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret thoughts, Starbuck said nothing,
      but quietly he issued all requisite orders; while Stubb and Flask—who
      in some small degree seemed then to be sharing his feelings—likewise
      unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some of them lowly
      rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of Fate. But as
      ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly unimpressed; or
      if impressed, it was only with a certain magnetism shot into their
      congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab’s.
    </p>
    <p>
      For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But chancing
      to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed copper sight-tubes of the
      quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun’s pilot! yesterday I wrecked thee,
      and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But Ahab is
      lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck—a lance without a
      pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker’s needles. Quick!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about to
      do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been to
      revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a
      matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses. Besides, the old man
      well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though clumsily
      practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious sailors,
      without some shudderings and evil portents.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Men,” said he, steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed him the
      things he had demanded, “my men, the thunder turned old Ahab’s needles;
      but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, that will point
      as true as any.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this
      was said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might
      follow. But Starbuck looked away.
    </p>
    <p>
      With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the
      lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining, bade him
      hold it upright, without its touching the deck. Then, with the maul, after
      repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the blunted
      needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered that, several
      times, the mate still holding the rod as before. Then going through some
      small strange motions with it—whether indispensable to the
      magnetizing of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe of the
      crew, is uncertain—he called for linen thread; and moving to the
      binnacle, slipped out the two reversed needles there, and horizontally
      suspended the sail-needle by its middle, over one of the compass-cards. At
      first, the steel went round and round, quivering and vibrating at either
      end; but at last it settled to its place, when Ahab, who had been intently
      watching for this result, stepped frankly back from the binnacle, and
      pointing his stretched arm towards it, exclaimed,—“Look ye, for
      yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of the level loadstone! The sun is East,
      and that compass swears it!”
     </p>
    <p>
      One after another they peered in, for nothing but their own eyes could
      persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they slunk away.
    </p>
    <p>
      In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all his fatal
      pride.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0125">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00132">
      CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.
    </h2>
    <p>
      While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the log
      and line had but very seldom been in use. Owing to a confident reliance
      upon other means of determining the vessel’s place, some merchantmen, and
      many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave the log;
      though at the same time, and frequently more for form’s sake than anything
      else, regularly putting down upon the customary slate the course steered
      by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of progression every
      hour. It had been thus with the Pequod. The wooden reel and angular log
      attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of the after
      bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun and wind had warped it; all
      the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly. But heedless
      of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he happened to glance upon the reel,
      not many hours after the magnet scene, and he remembered how his quadrant
      was no more, and recalled his frantic oath about the level log and line.
      The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows rolled in riots.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Forward, there! Heave the log!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman. “Take
      the reel, one of ye, I’ll heave.”
     </p>
    <p>
      They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship’s lee side, where the
      deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into the
      creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting
      handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so
      stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty
      turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old
      Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
      speak.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have
      spoiled it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “’Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?
      Thou seem’st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these grey hairs
      of mine ’tis not worth while disputing, ’specially with a superior, who’ll
      ne’er confess.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “What’s that? There now’s a patched professor in Queen Nature’s
      granite-founded College; but methinks he’s too subservient. Where wert
      thou born?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Excellent! Thou’st hit the world by that.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I know not, sir, but I was born there.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “In the Isle of Man, hey? Well, the other way, it’s good. Here’s a man
      from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
      which is sucked in—by what? Up with the reel! The dead, blind wall
      butts all inquiring heads at last. Up with it! So.”
     </p>
    <p>
      The log was heaved. The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long
      dragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl. In
      turn, jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows, the towing
      resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Hold hard!”
     </p>
    <p>
      Snap! the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging
      log was gone.
    </p>
    <p>
      “I crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad sea
      parts the log-line. But Ahab can mend all. Haul in here, Tahitian; reel
      up, Manxman. And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and mend
      thou the line. See to it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “There he goes now; to him nothing’s happened; but to me, the skewer seems
      loosening out of the middle of the world. Haul in, haul in, Tahitian!
      These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and dragging
      slow. Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Pip? whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from the whale-boat. Pip’s missing.
      Let’s see now if ye haven’t fished him up here, fisherman. It drags hard;
      I guess he’s holding on. Jerk him, Tahiti! Jerk him off; we haul in no
      cowards here. Ho! there’s his arm just breaking water. A hatchet! a
      hatchet! cut it off—we haul in no cowards here. Captain Ahab! sir,
      sir! here’s Pip, trying to get on board again.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Peace, thou crazy loon,” cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm. “Away
      from the quarter-deck!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser,” muttered Ahab, advancing.
      “Hands off from that holiness! Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
    </p>
    <p>
      “Astern there, sir, astern! Lo! lo!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And who art thou, boy? I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of
      thy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve
      through! Who art thou, boy?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Bell-boy, sir; ship’s-crier; ding, dong, ding! Pip! Pip! Pip! One hundred
      pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high—looks cowardly—quickest
      known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip the coward?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “There can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens! look
      down here. Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned him, ye
      creative libertines. Here, boy; Ahab’s cabin shall be Pip’s home
      henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou
      art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let’s down.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “What’s this? here’s velvet shark-skin,” intently gazing at Ahab’s hand,
      and feeling it. “Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing as this,
      perhaps he had ne’er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a man-rope;
      something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perth now come and
      rivet these two hands together; the black one with the white, for I will
      not let this go.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse
      horrors than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers in gods
      all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods
      oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not what
      he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come! I feel
      prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an
      Emperor’s!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “There go two daft ones now,” muttered the old Manxman. “One daft with
      strength, the other daft with weakness. But here’s the end of the rotten
      line—all dripping, too. Mend it, eh? I think we had best have a new
      line altogether. I’ll see Mr. Stubb about it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0126">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00133">
      CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Steering now south-eastward by Ahab’s levelled steel, and her progress
      solely determined by Ahab’s level log and line; the Pequod held on her
      path towards the Equator. Making so long a passage through such
      unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long, sideways impelled
      by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild; all these seemed
      the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate scene.
    </p>
    <p>
      At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of the
      Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the
      dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch—then
      headed by Flask—was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and
      unearthly—like half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all
      Herod’s murdered Innocents—that one and all, they started from their
      reveries, and for the space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all
      transfixedly listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wild cry
      remained within hearing. The Christian or civilized part of the crew said
      it was mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained
      unappalled. Yet the grey Manxman—the oldest mariner of all—declared
      that the wild thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly
      drowned men in the sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      Below in his hammock, Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn, when he
      came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not unaccompanied
      with hinted dark meanings. He hollowly laughed, and thus explained the
      wonder.
    </p>
    <p>
      Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of great numbers
      of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams, or some dams that
      had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept company with
      her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail. But this only the
      more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a very
      superstitious feeling about seals, arising not only from their peculiar
      tones when in distress, but also from the human look of their round heads
      and semi-intelligent faces, seen peeringly uprising from the water
      alongside. In the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have more than
      once been mistaken for men.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible
      confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning. At sun-rise
      this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore; and whether
      it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for sailors
      sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus with the
      man, there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he had not been long
      at his perch, when a cry was heard—a cry and a rushing—and
      looking up, they saw a falling phantom in the air; and looking down, a
      little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      The life-buoy—a long slender cask—was dropped from the stern,
      where it always hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to
      seize it, and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so
      that it slowly filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every
      pore; and the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom,
      as if to yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.
    </p>
    <p>
      And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out for
      the White Whale, on the White Whale’s own peculiar ground; that man was
      swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at the time.
      Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, at least as a
      portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of evil in the
      future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged. They declared
      that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they had heard the
      night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.
    </p>
    <p>
      The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see to
      it; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as in the
      feverish eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of the voyage,
      all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly connected with
      its final end, whatever that might prove to be; therefore, they were going
      to leave the ship’s stern unprovided with a buoy, when by certain strange
      signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint concerning his coffin.
    </p>
    <p>
      “A life-buoy of a coffin!” cried Starbuck, starting.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Rather queer, that, I should say,” said Stubb.
    </p>
    <p>
      “It will make a good enough one,” said Flask, “the carpenter here can
      arrange it easily.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Bring it up; there’s nothing else for it,” said Starbuck, after a
      melancholy pause. “Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so—the
      coffin, I mean. Dost thou hear me? Rig it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And shall I nail down the lid, sir?” moving his hand as with a hammer.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Aye.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And shall I caulk the seams, sir?” moving his hand as with a
      caulking-iron.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Aye.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “And shall I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?” moving his hand as
      with a pitch-pot.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Away! what possesses thee to this? Make a life-buoy of the coffin, and no
      more.—Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “He goes off in a huff. The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.
      Now I don’t like this. I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and he wears it like
      a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he won’t put his head
      into it. Are all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin? And now I’m
      ordered to make a life-buoy of it. It’s like turning an old coat; going to
      bring the flesh on the other side now. I don’t like this cobbling sort of
      business—I don’t like it at all; it’s undignified; it’s not my
      place. Let tinkers’ brats do tinkerings; we are their betters. I like to
      take in hand none but clean, virgin, fair-and-square mathematical jobs,
      something that regularly begins at the beginning, and is at the middle
      when midway, and comes to an end at the conclusion; not a cobbler’s job,
      that’s at an end in the middle, and at the beginning at the end. It’s the
      old woman’s tricks to be giving cobbling jobs. Lord! what an affection all
      old women have for tinkers. I know an old woman of sixty-five who ran away
      with a bald-headed young tinker once. And that’s the reason I never would
      work for lonely widow old women ashore, when I kept my job-shop in the
      Vineyard; they might have taken it into their lonely old heads to run off
      with me. But heigh-ho! there are no caps at sea but snow-caps. Let me see.
      Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay over the same with pitch; batten
      them down tight, and hang it with the snap-spring over the ship’s stern.
      Were ever such things done before with a coffin? Some superstitious old
      carpenters, now, would be tied up in the rigging, ere they would do the
      job. But I’m made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I don’t budge. Cruppered
      with a coffin! Sailing about with a grave-yard tray! But never mind. We
      workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as coffins
      and hearses. We work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit; not
      for us to ask the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too
      confounded cobbling, and then we stash it if we can. Hem! I’ll do the job,
      now, tenderly. I’ll have me—let’s see—how many in the ship’s
      company, all told? But I’ve forgotten. Any way, I’ll have me thirty
      separate, Turk’s-headed life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round
      to the coffin. Then, if the hull go down, there’ll be thirty lively
      fellows all fighting for one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath
      the sun! Come hammer, caulking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike! Let’s
      to it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0127">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00134">
      CHAPTER 127. The Deck.
    </h2>
    <p>
      <i>The coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between the vice-bench and the open
      hatchway; the Carpenter caulking its seams; the string of twisted oakum
      slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the bosom of his frock.—Ahab
      comes slowly from the cabin-gangway, and hears Pip following him.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      “Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this hand
      complies with my humor more genially than that boy.—Middle aisle of
      a church! What’s here?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck’s orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware the
      hatchway!”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Thank ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to the vault.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Sir? The hatchway? oh! So it does, sir, so it does.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Art not thou the leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Well enough. But art thou not also the undertaker?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; but
      they’ve set me now to turning it into something else.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling,
      monopolising, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the
      next day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those
      same coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a
      jack-of-all-trades.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “But I do not mean anything, sir. I do as I do.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “The gods again. Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin?
      The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for
      volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in hand. Dost
      thou never?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Sing, sir? Do I sing? Oh, I’m indifferent enough, sir, for that; but the
      reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there was
      none in his spade, sir. But the caulking mallet is full of it. Hark to
      it.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Aye, and that’s because the lid there’s a sounding-board; and what in all
      things makes the sounding-board is this—there’s naught beneath. And
      yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter.
      Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against the
      churchyard gate, going in?
    </p>
    <p>
      “Faith, sir, I’ve——”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Faith? What’s that?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Why, faith, sir, it’s only a sort of exclamation-like—that’s all,
      sir.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Um, um; go on.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “I was about to say, sir, that——”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Art thou a silk-worm? Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself? Look
      at thy bosom! Despatch! and get these traps out of sight.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “He goes aft. That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot
      latitudes. I’ve heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos,
      is cut by the Equator right in the middle. Seems to me some sort of
      Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle. He’s always under the
      Line—fiery hot, I tell ye! He’s looking this way—come, oakum;
      quick. Here we go again. This wooden mallet is the cork, and I’m the
      professor of musical glasses—tap, tap!”
     </p>
    <p>
      (<i>Ahab to himself</i>.)
    </p>
    <p>
      “There’s a sight! There’s a sound! The greyheaded woodpecker
      tapping the hollow tree! Blind and dumb might well be envied now. See! that
      thing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines. A most malicious wag, that
      fellow. Rat-tat! So man’s seconds tick! Oh! how immaterial are all
      materials! What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts? Here
      now’s the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the
      expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life. A life-buoy
      of a coffin! Does it go further? Can it be that in some spiritual sense
      the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver! I’ll think of
      that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth, that its other
      side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain twilight to me. Will
      ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed sound? I go below; let
      me not see that thing here when I return again. Now, then, Pip, we’ll talk
      this over; I do suck most wondrous philosophies from thee! Some unknown
      conduits from the unknown worlds must empty into thee!”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0128">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00135">
      CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.
    </h2>
    <p>
      Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down
      upon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the time
      the Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as the
      broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails all
      fell together as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled from the
      smitten hull.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Bad news; she brings bad news,” muttered the old Manxman. But ere her
      commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he could
      hopefully hail, Ahab’s voice was heard.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Hast seen the White Whale?”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?”
     </p>
    <p>
      Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question; and
      would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the stranger captain
      himself, having stopped his vessel’s way, was seen descending her side. A
      few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the Pequod’s main-chains,
      and he sprang to the deck. Immediately he was recognised by Ahab for a
      Nantucketer he knew. But no formal salutation was exchanged.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Where was he?—not killed!—not killed!” cried Ahab, closely
      advancing. “How was it?”
     </p>
    <p>
      It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous, while
      three of the stranger’s boats were engaged with a shoal of whales, which
      had led them some four or five miles from the ship; and while they were
      yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of Moby Dick had
      suddenly loomed up out of the water, not very far to leeward; whereupon,
      the fourth rigged boat—a reserved one—had been instantly
      lowered in chase. After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth boat—the
      swiftest keeled of all—seemed to have succeeded in fastening—at
      least, as well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it.
      In the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam
      of bubbling white water; and after that nothing more; whence it was
      concluded that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with his
      pursuers, as often happens. There was some apprehension, but no positive
      alarm, as yet. The recall signals were placed in the rigging; darkness
      came on; and forced to pick up her three far to windward boats—ere
      going in quest of the fourth one in the precisely opposite direction—the
      ship had not only been necessitated to leave that boat to its fate till
      near midnight, but, for the time, to increase her distance from it. But
      the rest of her crew being at last safe aboard, she crowded all sail—stunsail
      on stunsail—after the missing boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots
      for a beacon; and every other man aloft on the look-out. But though when
      she had thus sailed a sufficient distance to gain the presumed place of
      the absent ones when last seen; though she then paused to lower her spare
      boats to pull all around her; and not finding anything, had again dashed
      on; again paused, and lowered her boats; and though she had thus continued
      doing till daylight; yet not the least glimpse of the missing keel had
      been seen.
    </p>
    <p>
      The story told, the stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his
      object in boarding the Pequod. He desired that ship to unite with his own
      in the search; by sailing over the sea some four or five miles apart, on
      parallel lines, and so sweeping a double horizon, as it were.
    </p>
    <p>
      “I will wager something now,” whispered Stubb to Flask, “that some one in
      that missing boat wore off that Captain’s best coat; mayhap, his watch—he’s
      so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of two pious whale-ships
      cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height of the whaling season?
      See, Flask, only see how pale he looks—pale in the very buttons of
      his eyes—look—it wasn’t the coat—it must have been the—”
     </p>
    <p>
      “My boy, my own boy is among them. For God’s sake—I beg, I conjure”—here
      exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far had but icily
      received his petition. “For eight-and-forty hours let me charter your ship—I
      will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it—if there be no other
      way—for eight-and-forty hours only—only that—you must,
      oh, you must, and you <i>shall</i> do this thing.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “His son!” cried Stubb, “oh, it’s his son he’s lost! I take back the coat
      and watch—what says Ahab? We must save that boy.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “He’s drowned with the rest on ’em, last night,” said the old Manx sailor
      standing behind them; “I heard; all of ye heard their spirits.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the Rachel’s the
      more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of the
      Captain’s sons among the number of the missing boat’s crew; but among the
      number of the other boat’s crews, at the same time, but on the other hand,
      separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the chase, there
      had been still another son; as that for a time, the wretched father was
      plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity; which was only solved
      for him by his chief mate’s instinctively adopting the ordinary procedure
      of a whale-ship in such emergencies, that is, when placed between
      jeopardized but divided boats, always to pick up the majority first. But
      the captain, for some unknown constitutional reason, had refrained from
      mentioning all this, and not till forced to it by Ahab’s iciness did he
      allude to his one yet missing boy; a little lad, but twelve years old,
      whose father with the earnest but unmisgiving hardihood of a Nantucketer’s
      paternal love, had thus early sought to initiate him in the perils and
      wonders of a vocation almost immemorially the destiny of all his race. Nor
      does it unfrequently occur, that Nantucket captains will send a son of
      such tender age away from them, for a protracted three or four years’
      voyage in some other ship than their own; so that their first knowledge of
      a whaleman’s career shall be unenervated by any chance display of a
      father’s natural but untimely partiality, or undue apprehensiveness and
      concern.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meantime, now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab; and
      Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but without the
      least quivering of his own.
    </p>
    <p>
      “I will not go,” said the stranger, “till you say <i>aye</i> to me. Do to me as
      you would have me do to you in the like case. For <i>you</i> too have a boy,
      Captain Ahab—though but a child, and nestling safely at home now—a
      child of your old age too—Yes, yes, you relent; I see it—run,
      run, men, now, and stand by to square in the yards.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Avast,” cried Ahab—“touch not a rope-yarn”; then in a voice that
      prolongingly moulded every word—“Captain Gardiner, I will not do it.
      Even now I lose time. Good-bye, good-bye. God bless ye, man, and may I
      forgive myself, but I must go. Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnacle watch,
      and in three minutes from this present instant warn off all strangers:
      then brace forward again, and let the ship sail as before.”
     </p>
    <p>
      Hurriedly turning, with averted face, he descended into his cabin, leaving
      the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter rejection
      of his so earnest suit. But starting from his enchantment, Gardiner
      silently hurried to the side; more fell than stepped into his boat, and
      returned to his ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      Soon the two ships diverged their wakes; and long as the strange vessel
      was in view, she was seen to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot,
      however small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swung round;
      starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beat against a head
      sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all the while, her masts and
      yards were thickly clustered with men, as three tall cherry trees, when
      the boys are cherrying among the boughs.
    </p>
    <p>
      But by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainly saw
      that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained without comfort.
      She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were not.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0129">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00136">
      CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.
    </h2>
    <p>
      (<i>Ahab moving to go on deck; Pip catches him by the hand to follow.</i>)
    </p>
    <p>
      “Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is coming
      when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have thee by him.
      There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my malady.
      Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most desired
      health. Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee, as if thou
      wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own screwed chair;
      another screw to it, thou must be.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for your
      one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain a part
      of ye.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless
      fidelity of man!—and a black! and crazy!—but methinks
      like-cures-like applies to him too; he grows so sane again.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whose
      drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin.
      But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go with
      ye.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “If thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab’s purpose keels up in him. I
      tell thee no; it cannot be.”
     </p>
    <p>
      “Oh good master, master, master!
    </p>
    <p>
      “Weep so, and I will murder thee! have a care, for Ahab too is mad.
      Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and still
      know that I am there. And now I quit thee. Thy hand!—Met! True art
      thou, lad, as the circumference to its centre. So: God for ever bless
      thee; and if it come to that,—God for ever save thee, let what will
      befall.”
     </p>
    <p>
      (<i>Ahab goes; Pip steps one step forward.</i>)
    </p>
    <p>
      “Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air,—but I’m alone. Now
      were even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he’s missing. Pip! Pip!
      Ding, dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip? He must be up here; let’s try the door.
      What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there’s no opening it. It
      must be the spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told me this screwed
      chair was mine. Here, then, I’ll seat me, against the transom, in the
      ship’s full middle, all her keel and her three masts before me. Here, our
      old sailors say, in their black seventy-fours great admirals sometimes sit
      at table, and lord it over rows of captains and lieutenants. Ha! what’s
      this? epaulets! epaulets! the epaulets all come crowding! Pass round the
      decanters; glad to see ye; fill up, monsieurs! What an odd feeling, now,
      when a black boy’s host to white men with gold lace upon their coats!—Monsieurs,
      have ye seen one Pip?—a little negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog
      look, and cowardly! Jumped from a whale-boat once;—seen him? No!
      Well then, fill up again, captains, and let’s drink shame upon all
      cowards! I name no names. Shame upon them! Put one foot upon the table.
      Shame upon all cowards.—Hist! above there, I hear ivory—Oh,
      master! master! I am indeed down-hearted when you walk over me. But here
      I’ll stay, though this stern strikes rocks; and they bulge through; and
      oysters come to join me.”
     </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0130">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
    </div>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00137">
      CHAPTER 130. The Hat.
    </h2>
    <p>
      And now that at the proper time and place, after so long and wide a
      preliminary cruise, Ahab,—all other whaling waters swept—seemed
      to have chased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more securely
      there; now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and longitude
      where his tormenting wound had been inflicted; now that a vessel had been
      spoken which on the very day preceding had actually encountered Moby Dick;—and
      now that all his successive meetings with various ships contrastingly
      concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which the white whale
      tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned against; now it was that there
      lurked a something in the old man’s eyes, which it was hardly sufferable
      for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting polar star, which through the
      livelong, arctic, six months’ night sustains its piercing, steady, central
      gaze; so Ahab’s purpose now fixedly gleamed down upon the constant
      midnight of the gloomy crew. It domineered above them so, that all their
      bodings, doubts, misgivings, fears, were fain to hide beneath their souls,
      and not sprout forth a single spear or leaf.
    </p>
    <p>
      In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural,
      vanished. Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more strove
      to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed ground to
      finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of Ahab’s
      iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about the deck, ever conscious
      that the old man’s despot eye was on them.
    </p>
    <p>
      But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when he
      thought no glance but one was on him; then you would have seen that even
      as Ahab’s eyes so awed the crew’s, the inscrutable Parsee’s glance awed
      his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it. Such an
      added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallah now; such
      ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked dubious at him; half
      uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a mortal substance, or
      else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen being’s body.
      And that shadow was always hovering there. For not by night, even, had
      Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go below. He would stand
      still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan but wondrous eyes did
      plainly say—We two watchmen never rest.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nor, at any time, by night or day could the mariners now step upon the
      deck, unless Ahab was before them; either standing in his pivot-hole, or
      exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits,—the
      main-mast and the mizen; or else they saw him standing in the
      cabin-scuttle,—his living foot advanced upon the deck, as if to
      step; his hat slouched heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless
      he stood, however the days and nights were added on, that he had not swung
      in his hammock; yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, they could never
      tell unerringly whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at
      times; or whether he was still intently scanning them; no matter, though
      he stood so in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and the
      unheeded night-damp gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved coat
      and hat. The clothes that the night had wet, the next day’s sunshine dried
      upon him; and so, day after day, and night after night; he went no more
      beneath the planks; whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent
      for.
    </p>
    <p>
      He ate in the same open air; that is, his two only meals,—breakfast
      and dinner: supper he never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly
      grew all gnarled, as unearthed roots of trees blown over, which still grow
      idly on at naked base, though perished in the upper verdure. But though
      his whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though the Parsee’s
      mystic watch was without intermission as his own; yet these two never
      seemed to speak—one man to the other—unless at long intervals
      some passing unmomentous matter made it necessary. Though such a potent
      spell seemed secretly to join the twain; openly, and to the awe-struck
      crew, they seemed pole-like asunder. If by day they chanced to speak one
      word; by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned the slightest
      verbal interchange. At times, for longest hours, without a single hail,
      they stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his scuttle, the Parsee by
      the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each other; as if in the
      Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab the Parsee his abandoned
      substance.
    </p>
    <p>
      And yet, somehow, did Ahab—in his own proper self, as daily, hourly,
      and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,—Ahab
      seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again both
      seemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean shade
      siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and keel was
      solid Ahab.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard
      from aft,—“Man the mast-heads!”—and all through the day, till
      after sunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the
      striking of the helmsman’s bell, was heard—“What d’ye see?—sharp!
      sharp!”
     </p>
    <p>
      But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting the
      children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac
      old man seemed distrustful of his crew’s fidelity; at least, of nearly all
      except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether Stubb and
      Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. But if these
      suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from verbally
      expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.
    </p>
    <p>
      “I will have the first sight of the whale myself,”—he said. “Aye!
      Ahab must have the doubloon!” and with his own hands he rigged a nest of
      basketed bowlines; and sending a hand aloft, with a single sheaved block,
      to secure to the main-mast head, he received the two ends of the
      downward-reeved rope; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pin for
      the other end, in order to fasten it at the rail. This done, with that end
      yet in his hand and standing beside the pin, he looked round upon his
      crew, sweeping from one to the other; pausing his glance long upon Daggoo,
      Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning Fedallah; and then settling his firm
      relying eye upon the chief mate, said,—“Take the rope, sir—I
      give it into thy hands, Starbuck.” Then arranging his person in the
      basket, he gave the word for them to hoist him to his perch, Starbuck
      being the one who secured the rope at last; and afterwards stood near it.
      And thus, with one hand clinging round the royal mast, Ahab gazed abroad
      upon the sea for miles and miles,—ahead, astern, this side, and
      that,—within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a
      height.
    </p>
    <p>
      When in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in the
      rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is hoisted
      up to that spot, and sustained there by the rope; under these
      circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given in strict charge
      to some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in such a
      wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations aloft
      cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at the deck;
      and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few minutes cast
      down from the fastenings, it would be but a natural fatality, if,
      unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor should by some
      carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swooping to the sea.
      So Ahab’s proceedings in this matter were not unusual; the only strange
      thing about them seemed to be, that Starbuck, almost the one only man who
      had ever ventured to oppose him with anything in the slightest degree
      approaching to decision—one of those too, whose faithfulness on the
      look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat;—it was strange, that this
      was the very man he should select for his watchman; freely giving his
      whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person’s hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten
      minutes; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly
      incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these
      latitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head
      in a maze of untrackably swift circlings. Then it darted a thousand feet
      straight up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and went eddying
      again round his head.
    </p>
    <p>
      But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed not
      to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked it
      much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least heedful
      eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every sight.
    </p>
    <p>
      “Your hat, your hat, sir!” suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who being
      posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though somewhat
      lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing them.
    </p>
    <p>
      But already the sable wing was before the old man’s eyes; the long hooked
      bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with his
      prize.
    </p>
    <p>
      An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin’s head, removing his cap to replace it,
      and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would be king of
      Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen accounted good.
      Ahab’s hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and on with it; far
      in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; while from the point of
      that disappearance, a minute black spot was dimly discerned, falling from
      that vast height into the sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a id="link2HCH0131">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    </body></html>
