<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of Dracula, by Bram Stoker</title>
<link href="6120438458061428938_cover.jpg" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" id="id-186840935064535010"/>

<link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.13.7 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div class="chapter" id="pgepubid00030">
<h2>NOTE</h2>
<p>Seven years ago we all went through the flames; and the happiness of
some of us since then is, we think, well worth the pain we endured. It
is an added joy to Mina and to me that our boy’s birthday is the same
day as that on which Quincey Morris died. His mother holds, I know, the
secret belief that some of our brave friend’s spirit has passed into
him. His bundle of names links all our little band of men together; but
we call him Quincey.</p>
<p>In the summer of this year we made a journey to Transylvania, and went
over the old ground which was, and is, to us so full of vivid and
terrible memories. It was almost impossible to believe that the things
which we had seen with our own eyes and heard with our own ears were
living truths. Every trace of all that had been was blotted out. The
castle stood as before, reared high above a waste of desolation.</p>
<p>When we got home we were talking of the old time—which we could all
look back on without despair, for Godalming and Seward are both happily
married. I took the papers from the safe where they had been ever since
our return so long ago. We were struck with the fact, that in all the
mass of material of which the record is composed, there is hardly one
authentic document; nothing but a mass of typewriting, except the later
note-books of Mina and Seward and myself, and Van Helsing’s memorandum.
We could hardly ask any one, even did we wish to, to accept these as
proofs of so wild a story. Van Helsing summed it all up as he said, with
our boy on his knee:—</p>
<p>“We want no proofs; we ask none to believe us! This boy will some day
know what a brave and gallant woman his mother is. Already he knows her
sweetness and loving care; later on he will understand how some men so
loved her, that they did dare much for her sake.”</p>
<p class="r">
<span class="smcap">Jonathan Harker.</span><br/>
</p>
<p class="c">
THE END<br/>
</p>
<hr style="width: 95%;"/>
<div class="boxxx">
<p class="c"><span class="big"><span class="big"><i>There’s More to Follow!</i></span></span></p>
<div class="blockquot2"><p>More stories of the sort you like; more, probably, by the author of
this one; more than 500 titles all told by writers of world-wide
reputation, in the Authors’ Alphabetical List which you will find
on the <i>reverse side</i> of the wrapper of this book. Look it over
before you lay it aside. There are books here you are sure to
want—some, possibly, that you have <i>always</i> wanted.</p>
<p>It is a <i>selected</i> list; every book in it has achieved a certain
measure of <i>success</i>.</p>
<p>The Grosset &amp; Dunlap list is not only the greatest Index of Good
Fiction available, it represents in addition a generally accepted
Standard of Value. It will pay you to</p></div>
<p class="c"><span class="big"><i>Look on the Other Side of the Wrapper!</i></span></p>
<div class="blockquot2"><p><i>In case the wrapper is lost write to the publishers for a complete
catalog</i></p>
</div>
<p/>
<hr class="dbl"/>
<p class="cb"><span class="big">DETECTIVE STORIES BY J. S. FLETCHER</span></p>
<hr class="dbl"/>
<p class="cbs">May be had wherever books are sold. Ask for Grosset &amp; Dunlap’s list</p>
<hr class="dbl"/>
<p class="un">
THE SECRET OF THE BARBICAN<br/>
<br/>
THE ANNEXATION SOCIETY<br/>
<br/>
THE WOLVES AND THE LAMB<br/>
<br/>
GREEN INK<br/>
<br/>
THE KING versus WARGRAVE<br/>
<br/>
THE LOST MR. LINTHWAITE<br/>
<br/>
THE MILL OF MANY WINDOWS<br/>
<br/>
THE HEAVEN-KISSED HILL<br/>
<br/>
THE MIDDLE TEMPLE MURDER<br/>
<br/>
RAVENSDENE COURT<br/>
<br/>
THE RAYNER-SLADE AMALGAMATION<br/>
<br/>
THE SAFETY PIN<br/>
<br/>
THE SECRET WAY<br/>
<br/>
THE VALLEY OF HEADSTRONG MEN<br/>
</p>
<hr class="dbl"/>
<p class="c"><i>Ask for Complete free list of G. &amp; D. Popular Copyrighted Fiction</i></p>
<hr class="dbl"/>
<p class="c">GROSSET &amp; DUNLAP, <i>Publishers</i>, NEW YORK</p>
<hr class="dbl"/>
</div>
</div><div style="display:block; margin-top:4em"/></body></html>
